10002
www.ics.uci.edu/community/news/view_news.php?id=1023
In the News @ Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences HOME ABOUT About the School Dean's Welcome Facts and Figures Donald Bren Hall Visit the Bren School Equity & Diversity Contact Us DEPARTMENTS Computer Science Informatics Statistics RESEARCH Research Areas Research Centers Research Highlights STUDENTS Graduate ▸ Prospective Students How to Apply Programs of Study Academic Year Plan Forms Policies Funding & Housing Computing Support Campus Resources Visit the Bren School Graduate Student Handbook Contact Undergraduate ▸ Contact Academic Advising Course Updates Academic Year Plan Petitions ICS Majors ICS Minors Policies: Academic Integrity Policies: Academic Standing Policies: Add, drop, & change options Policies: Coursework outside UCI Policies: Grade policy Policies: Laptop & computer use Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses Graduation ICS Student Life Upcoming Events Computing Support Scholarships & Fellowships Student Jobs & Internships PEOPLE Faculty Staff Graduate Students NEWS & EVENTS Newsroom Events Social Media Press Releases Annual Reports Student Blogs GET INVOLVED Make a Gift Alumni Leadership Council Corporate Partners Sponsor Projects Product Development Competition Bren school home / Community / News In the News March 4, 2016 Harris offers online certificate course in IoT devices, embedded systems Interested in Arduinos and microcontrollers? Associate Professor of Computer Science Ian Harris is offering a novel specialization in Internet of Things (IoT) devices, available to the general public through online course platform Coursera. Through a series of five online courses and one capstone project, students can earn a certificate specializing in embedded systems, the Raspberry Pi Platform, and the Arduino environment for building devices that can control the physical world. Courses include “Introduction to the Internet of Things and Embedded Systems,” which explores the explosive growth of IoT devices and the rising trend of home-built IoT innovations, as well as IoT device design considerations and networking components. Another course, “Interfacing with the Arduino,” explores the various ways to connect sensors to the Arduino, an open-source electronic prototyping platform used to create interactive electronics. After completing the required classes, students then apply their knowledge by designing, building and testing a “microcontroller-based embedded system, producing a unique final project suitable for showcasing to future employer,” according to the course description. The specialization is designed for beginners, with no prior experience in embedded systems or IoT knowledge required. Courses are typically a month long, requiring only a few hours a week commitment depending on the intensiveness. Students are free to take the courses individually without completing the specialization, as well. The online courses are also relatively low-cost, with financial aid available to those who qualify. Harris notes that the benefits of taking the course: “You’ll be able to design and create a simple IoT device while exploring different IoT technologies and their applications. Using both the Arduino and Raspberry Pi hardware systems, you’ll develop basic code using both the Python and C programming languages. ... Best of all you’ll have fun using new technologies that will be an ever-increasing part of our future.” Harris offers online certificate course in IoT devices, embedded systems < Previous Jessica Utts: An ambassador for statistics Next > Lo, Ames named Center for Technology, Society and Policy Fellows More news and events News Stories Press releases Video highlights Annual reports Student Blogs Calendar of events Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or via email at matt.miller@uci.edu. Tweets by UCIbrenICS View Social Media Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences University of California, Irvine 6210 Donald Bren Hall Irvine, CA 92697-3425 UCI Homepage UCI Directory Faculty & Staff ICS Intranet Kay Family Foundation Lab Facilities News Events Map & Directions Employment Safety Procedures Privacy Policy Apply Contact Gift © UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences ➤