10007
www.ics.uci.edu/community/news/view_news.php?id=1032
In the News @ Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences HOME ABOUT About the School Dean's Welcome Facts and Figures Donald Bren Hall Visit the Bren School Equity & Diversity Contact Us DEPARTMENTS Computer Science Informatics Statistics RESEARCH Research Areas Research Centers Research Highlights STUDENTS Graduate ▸ Prospective Students How to Apply Programs of Study Academic Year Plan Forms Policies Funding & Housing Computing Support Campus Resources Visit the Bren School Graduate Student Handbook Contact Undergraduate ▸ Contact Academic Advising Course Updates Academic Year Plan Petitions ICS Majors ICS Minors Policies: Academic Integrity Policies: Academic Standing Policies: Add, drop, & change options Policies: Coursework outside UCI Policies: Grade policy Policies: Laptop & computer use Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses Graduation ICS Student Life Upcoming Events Computing Support Scholarships & Fellowships Student Jobs & Internships PEOPLE Faculty Staff Graduate Students NEWS & EVENTS Newsroom Events Social Media Press Releases Annual Reports Student Blogs GET INVOLVED Make a Gift Alumni Leadership Council Corporate Partners Sponsor Projects Product Development Competition Bren school home / Community / News In the News March 24, 2016 Lopes awarded Pizzigati Prize for Software in the Public Interest The Tides Foundation honored Lopes for her work in developing OpenSimulator, making her the first woman to receive the prize. The Tides Foundation—a social justice and sustainability-focused organization—has awarded Informatics Professor Crista Lopes the Antonio Pizzigati Prize for Software in the Public Interest. The prize, which includes a $10,000 cash grant, is given annually to a leader in open source software development who has made strides in the nonprofit sector and in social change movements. Lopes is the first woman to receive the honor. Lopes receives the award for her groundbreaking work in developing OpenSimulator, an open-source platform that allows users to run virtual world "Second Life" environments on their own servers. OpenSimulator was crafted by 124 individual contributors who exerted an estimated 107 years of individual effort in just six years of collaboration. The platform has seen many uses, including serving as a virtual educational environment. Lopes and her fellow organizers also hold an annual virtual conference for the OpenSimulator community. “I strongly believe in the benefits of a public software infrastructure, something that has been emerging over the past 20 years or so, but that needs a lot more investment by everyone,” Lopes says. “Modern society runs on it, and the developers who contribute to it are unsung heroes. So I am honored to be given this award by the Tides Foundation, who seems to have a similar attitude.” The award honors the brief life of Antonio Pizzigati, an early champion for open source software development. Pizzigati received his degree in computer science from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), where he also worked at the world-famous MIT Media Lab and later the MIT Laboratory for Computer Science. From a young age, Pizzigati was active in data-driven activism and was one of the earliest World Wide Web authors. “The Pizzigati Prize seeks to honor software developers who create, for free public distribution, open source applications and tools that nonprofit and advocacy groups can put to good use,” the Tides Foundation says. “These developers are making a two-faceted contribution to social change. First, they are having an important practical impact: their software helps nonprofits both become more effective on a daily basis, and build their capacity to better inform and mobilize their constituents.” The foundation especially lauds prizewinners’ commitment to collaboration and sharing in a traditionally cutthroat and competitive path to software development progress. “We hope and expect that this prize initiative will also help link public interest software developers with each other and with the nonprofit and advocacy groups that so strongly need their assistance,” according to the Tides Foundation. Lopes will receive her award at the end of March at the Nonprofit Technology Conference in San Jose, Calif. Lopes awarded Pizzigati Prize for Software in the Public Interest

 < Previous Informatics professors Bowker, Ito release interdisciplinary, culture-focused books Next > Hypergrid inventor wins $10,000 prize More news and events News Stories Press releases Video highlights Annual reports Student Blogs Calendar of events Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or via email at matt.miller@uci.edu. Tweets by UCIbrenICS View Social Media Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences University of California, Irvine 6210 Donald Bren Hall Irvine, CA 92697-3425 UCI Homepage UCI Directory Faculty & Staff ICS Intranet Kay Family Foundation Lab Facilities News Events Map & Directions Employment Safety Procedures Privacy Policy Apply Contact Gift © UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences ➤