10026
www.ics.uci.edu/community/news/view_news.php?id=1068
In the News @ Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences HOME ABOUT About the School Dean's Welcome Facts and Figures Donald Bren Hall Visit the Bren School Equity & Diversity Contact Us DEPARTMENTS Computer Science Informatics Statistics RESEARCH Research Areas Research Centers Research Highlights STUDENTS Graduate ▸ Prospective Students How to Apply Programs of Study Academic Year Plan Forms Policies Funding & Housing Computing Support Campus Resources Visit the Bren School Graduate Student Handbook Contact Undergraduate ▸ Contact Academic Advising Course Updates Academic Year Plan Petitions ICS Majors ICS Minors Policies: Academic Integrity Policies: Academic Standing Policies: Add, drop, & change options Policies: Coursework outside UCI Policies: Grade policy Policies: Laptop & computer use Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses Graduation ICS Student Life Upcoming Events Computing Support Scholarships & Fellowships Student Jobs & Internships PEOPLE Faculty Staff Graduate Students NEWS & EVENTS Newsroom Events Social Media Press Releases Annual Reports Student Blogs GET INVOLVED Make a Gift Alumni Leadership Council Corporate Partners Sponsor Projects Product Development Competition Bren school home / Community / News In the News June 13, 2016 Levorato receives prestigious Hellman Fellowship The computer science professor will use his fellowship to develop a "smart" community network. Assistant professor of computer science Marco Levorato has been named a Hellman Fellow for the 2016-17 academic year. The prestigious fellowship recognizes early career faculty members who show tremendous promise in their field, and helps to support their scholarly endeavors with up to $50,000 in funding. Levorato will use his fellowship to support his Internet of Things (IoT)-related project, “The Path Towards Smart Interconnected Communities.” He hopes to probe the growing network of everyday objects equipped with microcontrollers, transceivers for digital communication and other communicative tools to “exploit a huge amount and variety of sensed data to extract relevant information with the possibility to act in real time to optimize specific processes,” according to the project proposal. The project will take a particular interest in IoT in an urban context, with the aim of testing out a “Smart City” concept, where citizens are empowered “with the ability to provide direct feedback on services, infrastructures, and neighborhoods, thus creating a virtuous cycle between technology, citizens, and the city as a whole.” “My objective is to facilitate the inclusion of citizens as the central component of city administration and systems,” Levorato says. “The fellowship will be used to develop a new link between citizens, technology and citywide services.” Levorato joined UCI in 2013. He received his doctorate in electrical engineering at the University of Padova, Italy, in 2009. Warren and Chris Hellman founded the Hellman Fellows program in 1994 to help fund junior faculty research at universities. The Hellman Fellow Fund has supported more than 850 junior faculty members and now provides graduate awards to support doctoral research in addition to university faculty. For more information on the 2016-17 Hellman Fellows, view the official UCI media release. Levorato receives prestigious Hellman Fellowship
 < Previous UPDATE: Franz, Dourish formally recognized as ACM Fellows Next > NSF awards Dourish $195,000 for software studies-centric research More news and events News Stories Press releases Video highlights Annual reports Student Blogs Calendar of events Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or via email at matt.miller@uci.edu. Tweets by UCIbrenICS View Social Media Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences University of California, Irvine 6210 Donald Bren Hall Irvine, CA 92697-3425 UCI Homepage UCI Directory Faculty & Staff ICS Intranet Kay Family Foundation Lab Facilities News Events Map & Directions Employment Safety Procedures Privacy Policy Apply Contact Gift © UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences ➤