10035
www.ics.uci.edu/community/news/view_news.php?id=1080
In the News @ Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences HOME ABOUT About the School Dean's Welcome Facts and Figures Donald Bren Hall Visit the Bren School Equity & Diversity Contact Us DEPARTMENTS Computer Science Informatics Statistics RESEARCH Research Areas Research Centers Research Highlights STUDENTS Graduate ▸ Prospective Students How to Apply Programs of Study Academic Year Plan Forms Policies Funding & Housing Computing Support Campus Resources Visit the Bren School Graduate Student Handbook Contact Undergraduate ▸ Contact Academic Advising Course Updates Academic Year Plan Petitions ICS Majors ICS Minors Policies: Academic Integrity Policies: Academic Standing Policies: Add, drop, & change options Policies: Coursework outside UCI Policies: Grade policy Policies: Laptop & computer use Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses Graduation ICS Student Life Upcoming Events Computing Support Scholarships & Fellowships Student Jobs & Internships PEOPLE Faculty Staff Graduate Students NEWS & EVENTS Newsroom Events Social Media Press Releases Annual Reports Student Blogs GET INVOLVED Make a Gift Alumni Leadership Council Corporate Partners Sponsor Projects Product Development Competition Bren school home / Community / News In the News September 12, 2016 Alumni success story: Ersin Uzun Computer Science alumnus named VP, director of PARC’s Computing Science Lab Computer Science alumnus Ersin Uzun (M.S., Ph.D. ’10) was recently appointed vice president and director of the Xerox PARC’s (Palo Alto Research Center) Computing Science Laboratory (CSL). This is the very same CSL that invented the notions of: GUI, Bitmap Graphics, Ethernet, and Object-Oriented Programming and Ubiquotous Computing. In this new role, Uzun will lead the research and development of new security and communication technologies, as well as the innovation service offerings such as rapid prototyping, user needs research and innovation management consultancy. “This is a tremendous achievement for someone only six years out of graduate school,” says Chancellor’s Professor of Computer Science Gene Tsudik, who was Uzun’s Ph.D. advisor. “His success is a reflection on the caliber of students graduating from our Computer Science and Networked Systems programs, who are ready to make a difference in the world.” Uzun has been working at PARC since 2010. He started as a senior research scientist before going on to direct PARC’s research efforts in data security and privacy, leading some of its visionary research in privacy-preserving analytics, content-centric networking and named-data networking. He then served as PARC’s global director of technology solutions and strategy, leading its efforts in developing innovative and cutting-edge solutions to the industries’ most challenging problems, before being promoted to his current position as VP and CSL director. Aside from PARC, Uzun’s worked at Nokia Research, HP Labs and Ericsson. His professional experience also includes co-founding hi-tech startups and working as a technology consultant. He is also the author of more than 100 peer-reviewed publications and issued/pending patents. Learn more and connect with Uzun here > — Katherine Li Smith Alumni success story: Ersin Uzun < Previous Bowker awarded two NSF grants for big data research Next > ICS study links selfies, happiness More news and events News Stories Press releases Video highlights Annual reports Student Blogs Calendar of events Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or via email at matt.miller@uci.edu. Tweets by UCIbrenICS View Social Media Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences University of California, Irvine 6210 Donald Bren Hall Irvine, CA 92697-3425 UCI Homepage UCI Directory Faculty & Staff ICS Intranet Kay Family Foundation Lab Facilities News Events Map & Directions Employment Safety Procedures Privacy Policy Apply Contact Gift © UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences ➤