10045
www.ics.uci.edu/community/news/view_news.php?id=1099
In the News @ Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences HOME ABOUT About the School Dean's Welcome Facts and Figures Donald Bren Hall Visit the Bren School Equity & Diversity Contact Us DEPARTMENTS Computer Science Informatics Statistics RESEARCH Research Areas Research Centers Research Highlights STUDENTS Graduate ▸ Prospective Students How to Apply Programs of Study Academic Year Plan Forms Policies Funding & Housing Computing Support Campus Resources Visit the Bren School Graduate Student Handbook Contact Undergraduate ▸ Contact Academic Advising Course Updates Academic Year Plan Petitions ICS Majors ICS Minors Policies: Academic Integrity Policies: Academic Standing Policies: Add, drop, & change options Policies: Coursework outside UCI Policies: Grade policy Policies: Laptop & computer use Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses Graduation ICS Student Life Upcoming Events Computing Support Scholarships & Fellowships Student Jobs & Internships PEOPLE Faculty Staff Graduate Students NEWS & EVENTS Newsroom Events Social Media Press Releases Annual Reports Student Blogs GET INVOLVED Make a Gift Alumni Leadership Council Corporate Partners Sponsor Projects Product Development Competition Bren school home / Community / News In the News November 21, 2016 3 ICS researchers named AAAS fellows Ramesh Jain, Hal Stern and Gene Tsudik are recognized by the American Association for the Advancement of Science for contributions to their fields. Three faculty members from the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS) have been named fellows of the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS), the world’s largest general scientific society. Donald Bren Professor of Computer Science Ramesh Jain, Ted and Janice Smith Family Foundation Dean Hal Stern and Chancellor’s Professor of Computer Science Gene Tsudik were among nine other UC Irvine researchers honored by AAAS this year. A total of 391 AAAS members are being honored this year for their efforts to further science or its applications. New fellows will receive an official certificate and a gold-and-blue rosette pin on Feb. 18, 2017, at the organization’s annual meeting in Boston. They will also be formally announced in the Nov. 25, 2016 AAAS News & Notes section of the journal Science. “The AAAS plays an important role with the advancement of scientific research, education and outreach in the U.S.,” said Pramod Khargonekar, UCI vice chancellor for research. “These brilliant scientists – who represent a broad spectrum of academic pursuits – personify UCI’s research innovation and excellence, and we are proud of their achievements.” Jain is noted for his distinguished contributions to the fields of computer vision, multimedia information management and experiential computing resulting in transforming the multimedia community with multiple successes in innovation and entrepreneurship. Stern is recognized for his high-impact contributions to statistical methodology and important applications, for development and application of Bayesian methods, and for high-leverage national service and university administration. Tsudik is noted for his contributions to security and privacy of the Internet. “The AAAS mission is to advance science in its service of society,” said Stern. “The Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences prides itself on performing research that uses computational and technological tools to help address societal challenges, and for this reason it is a great honor for three ICS faculty members to be recognized in the same year.” A total of nine UC Irvine researchers in areas ranging from anthropology and psychology to computer science and biology were named AAAS fellows this year, bringing UCI’s total to 150 AAAS fellows. Within ICS Jain, Stern and Tsudik join five other ICS colleagues who have previously been named AAAS Fellows: Eric Mjolsness (Computer Science), Geoffrey Bowker (Informatics), Pierre Baldi (Computer Science), Michael Goodrich (Computer Science) and Jessica Utts (Statistics). For more information, read the official UC Irvine announcement > — Katherine Li Smith 3 ICS researchers named AAAS fellows

 < Previous ICS-Engineering Leadership Council’s Diversity Committee Receives NAMEPA Wings to Succeed Award Next > UCI team places first in regional ACM competition, advances to international finals in May More news and events News Stories Press releases Video highlights Annual reports Student Blogs Calendar of events Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or via email at matt.miller@uci.edu. Tweets by UCIbrenICS View Social Media Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences University of California, Irvine 6210 Donald Bren Hall Irvine, CA 92697-3425 UCI Homepage UCI Directory Faculty & Staff ICS Intranet Kay Family Foundation Lab Facilities News Events Map & Directions Employment Safety Procedures Privacy Policy Apply Contact Gift © UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences ➤