10047
www.ics.uci.edu/community/news/view_news.php?id=1108
In the News @ Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences HOME ABOUT About the School Dean's Welcome Facts and Figures Donald Bren Hall Visit the Bren School Equity & Diversity Contact Us DEPARTMENTS Computer Science Informatics Statistics RESEARCH Research Areas Research Centers Research Highlights STUDENTS Graduate ▸ Prospective Students How to Apply Programs of Study Academic Year Plan Forms Policies Funding & Housing Computing Support Campus Resources Visit the Bren School Graduate Student Handbook Contact Undergraduate ▸ Contact Academic Advising Course Updates Academic Year Plan Petitions ICS Majors ICS Minors Policies: Academic Integrity Policies: Academic Standing Policies: Add, drop, & change options Policies: Coursework outside UCI Policies: Grade policy Policies: Laptop & computer use Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses Graduation ICS Student Life Upcoming Events Computing Support Scholarships & Fellowships Student Jobs & Internships PEOPLE Faculty Staff Graduate Students NEWS & EVENTS Newsroom Events Social Media Press Releases Annual Reports Student Blogs GET INVOLVED Make a Gift Alumni Leadership Council Corporate Partners Sponsor Projects Product Development Competition Bren school home / Community / News In the News December 16, 2016 Two ICS Ph.D. students receive 2017 UCI Public Impact Fellowships The fellowships recognize Kathryn Ringland and Nitin Agarwal for having research that has the potential for substantial impact in the public sphere. Computer Science Ph.D. student Nitin Agarwal and Informatics Ph.D. student Kathryn Ringland were recently named 2017 Public Impact Fellows by UC Irvine. The fellowships highlight and support doctoral students whose current research has the potential for substantial impact in the public sphere. “This program was developed to support and highlight academically excellent graduate students whose research demonstrates the potential to significantly improve or enrich the lives of people in California and beyond,” said Frances Leslie, UC Irvine’s vice provost for graduate education. The competition is open to all schools for a total of 14 fellowships. The 10 selected Public Impact Fellows will each receive their $1,000 fellowship during the winter quarter to help supplement their funding, while four Public Impact Distinguished Fellows will each receive $12,000. The application process includes several tiers before a student is nominated. This begins with a nomination by a faculty member to the department, which is then vetted and compared with other nominations, before being forwarded as an official nomination by the school. The Public Impact Fellowship final selection committee then makes the final decision. The committee considers several factors when choosing the awardees, including the student's presentation, interview, their ability to convey their research to a broad audience, academic record, letters of recommendation and degree progress. Candidates also must have a GPA of 3.7 or higher and conduct research that has a critical public impact in areas such as health care, social justice or cultural engagement. "This fellowship is a validation of my research and a way to publicize the importance of my work," said Agarwal. "Most importantly, this fellowship serves as an inspiration and encouragement for me to carry on understanding the brain and its disorders for the betterment of the society. I am overjoyed and deeply humbled on receiving this honor." About Kathryn Ringland Kathryn (Kate) Ringland is currently a Ph.D. candidate in Informatics whose areas of interest include: human-computer interaction, ubiquitous computing, assistive technology, and technology for individuals with autism. She is particularly interested in looking at the collaborative play, embodiment and ways to design accessible technology. About Nitin Agarwal Nitin Agarwal is currently a Ph.D. candidate in Computer Science and a graduate research assistant in UCI's Interactive Graphics & Visualization Lab. He is broadly interested in the areas of computer graphics, computational geometry, computer vision, medical image processing and machine learning. — Katherine Li Smith Two ICS Ph.D. students receive 2017 UCI Public Impact Fellowships < Previous ICS alumnus Tim Kashani to be honored at 2017 Lauds & Laurels event Next > Kobsa to lead an international team in the study of household IoT users' privacy decisions using process-tracing technology More news and events News Stories Press releases Video highlights Annual reports Student Blogs Calendar of events Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or via email at matt.miller@uci.edu. Tweets by UCIbrenICS View Social Media Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences University of California, Irvine 6210 Donald Bren Hall Irvine, CA 92697-3425 UCI Homepage UCI Directory Faculty & Staff ICS Intranet Kay Family Foundation Lab Facilities News Events Map & Directions Employment Safety Procedures Privacy Policy Apply Contact Gift © UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences ➤