10064
www.ics.uci.edu/community/news/view_news.php?id=678
In the News @ Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences HOME ABOUT About the School Dean's Welcome Facts and Figures Donald Bren Hall Visit the Bren School Equity & Diversity Contact Us DEPARTMENTS Computer Science Informatics Statistics RESEARCH Research Areas Research Centers Research Highlights STUDENTS Graduate ▸ Prospective Students How to Apply Programs of Study Academic Year Plan Forms Policies Funding & Housing Computing Support Campus Resources Visit the Bren School Graduate Student Handbook Contact Undergraduate ▸ Contact Academic Advising Course Updates Academic Year Plan Petitions ICS Majors ICS Minors Policies: Academic Integrity Policies: Academic Standing Policies: Add, drop, & change options Policies: Coursework outside UCI Policies: Grade policy Policies: Laptop & computer use Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses Graduation ICS Student Life Upcoming Events Computing Support Scholarships & Fellowships Student Jobs & Internships PEOPLE Faculty Staff Graduate Students NEWS & EVENTS Newsroom Events Social Media Press Releases Annual Reports Student Blogs GET INVOLVED Make a Gift Alumni Leadership Council Corporate Partners Sponsor Projects Product Development Competition Bren school home / Community / News In the News April 25, 2016 CS undergrad's business makes Inc.’s 2016 list of Coolest College Startups Junior Nick Nguyen is recognized for his startup CubeForme, a 3-D printing subscription-box service. CubeForme, a 3-D printing subscription box service co-founded by computer science undergraduate Nick Nguyen, has been named one of Inc.’s Coolest College Startups of 2016. The subscription-box service delivers curated 3-D printed products from independent designers to subscribers every month, including gadgets, games and art pieces. Individuals can also opt to purchase the products online without a subscription. The six-employee student startup aims to inspire an appreciation of 3-D printing and give 3-D designers the recognition that they deserve. According to the Inc. profile, CubeForme was bootstrapped from $2,000 put up by Nguyen and his co-founder Kyle Pham, a student at the University of Southern California. Subscriptions launched in November 2015 while direct online sales came two months later, allowing artists to make a 10 percent commission on each product. “To us, 3D printing has redefined possibility,” the CubeForme team says on their website. “The technology is a revolutionary outlet for innovation, allowing unrestrained creativity and unprecedented precision. The depth of ingenuity in every layer of the process truly fascinates us. There is truly a 3D printed invention for anyone and everyone to enjoy and benefit from.” According to Inc., the startup recently “established partnerships with My Mini Factory, a 3-D printable object download platform; MatterHackers, a 3-D printer distributor and software developer; and a number of product and design sites such as Brit & Co. and Monthlyboxhub.” CubeForme also participated in last year’s Los Angeles Gadget Expo. Inc.’s Coolest College Startups list highlights America’s top student-run businesses, voted in by a tournament-style competition. Inc.'s 16 Coolest College Startups were selected from a list of more than 100 companies from universities across North America, most nominated by schools and collegiate entrepreneurs organization. Criteria included originality of idea, pitch and growth potential, according to the magazine. CS undergrad's business makes Inc.’s 2016 list of Coolest College Startups
 < Previous UCI ranked one of the top game design schools by ACR Next > Dourish discusses Chinese hackerspaces on Danish radio More news and events News Stories Press releases Video highlights Annual reports Student Blogs Calendar of events Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or via email at matt.miller@uci.edu. Tweets by UCIbrenICS View Social Media Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences University of California, Irvine 6210 Donald Bren Hall Irvine, CA 92697-3425 UCI Homepage UCI Directory Faculty & Staff ICS Intranet Kay Family Foundation Lab Facilities News Events Map & Directions Employment Safety Procedures Privacy Policy Apply Contact Gift © UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences ➤