10071
www.ics.uci.edu/community/news/view_news?id=1027
In the News @ Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences HOME ABOUT About the School Dean's Welcome Facts and Figures Donald Bren Hall Visit the Bren School Equity & Diversity Contact Us DEPARTMENTS Computer Science Informatics Statistics RESEARCH Research Areas Research Centers Research Highlights STUDENTS Graduate ▸ Prospective Students How to Apply Programs of Study Academic Year Plan Forms Policies Funding & Housing Computing Support Campus Resources Visit the Bren School Graduate Student Handbook Contact Undergraduate ▸ Contact Academic Advising Course Updates Academic Year Plan Petitions ICS Majors ICS Minors Policies: Academic Integrity Policies: Academic Standing Policies: Add, drop, & change options Policies: Coursework outside UCI Policies: Grade policy Policies: Laptop & computer use Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses Graduation ICS Student Life Upcoming Events Computing Support Scholarships & Fellowships Student Jobs & Internships PEOPLE Faculty Staff Graduate Students NEWS & EVENTS Newsroom Events Social Media Press Releases Annual Reports Student Blogs GET INVOLVED Make a Gift Alumni Leadership Council Corporate Partners Sponsor Projects Product Development Competition Bren school home / Community / News In the News March 21, 2016 Alumnus Steven Anderson receives 2016 Lauds & Laurels Award UC Irvine honors alumnus Steven Anderson (B.S. ’86), managing partner at Quinn Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan and a distinguished lawyer in the computer science and technology field, with a 2016 Lauds and Laurels Award. Anderson is one of this year’s 18 recipients of the UCI Alumni Association’s highest honor, and this year’s only ICS alum. Anderson graduated magna cum laude and Phi Beta Kappa with a B.S. in Information and Computer Sciences in 1986. From there, he attended Harvard Law School, graduating cum laude with his J.D. in 1989. He served as editor of the Harvard Journal of Law and Technology from 1987 to 1989. Anderson now practices law in the areas of intellectual property litigation and patent litigation. Over the years, he has provided counsel in a variety of computer and tech-related areas, including microprocessors and microcomputers, ultrasonic toothbrushes, and prepaid wireless telecommunication systems and methods, among many others. His clients have included DIRECTV, Freedom Wireless, Seiko Epson and Motorola Mobility. Los Angeles Magazine has also named Anderson a “Super Lawyer” several times over. Anderson and his fellow awardees will be formally honored at the 46th Annual Lauds & Laurels Gala, held May 12 at the new [AV] Irvine venue near the Irvine Spectrum. The Lauds and Laurels Award Ceremony has been a UCI Alumni Association tradition since 1970, making it the university’s oldest award ceremony. The annual tradition has recognized more than 750 members of the UC Irvine community for their service to the university, the community or their profession. Alumnus Steven Anderson receives 2016 Lauds & Laurels Award
 < Previous Dourish interviewed about the social life of algorithms for podcast Next > Utts spearheads efforts to improve statistical accuracy More news and events News Stories Press releases Video highlights Annual reports Student Blogs Calendar of events Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or via email at matt.miller@uci.edu. Tweets by UCIbrenICS View Social Media Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences University of California, Irvine 6210 Donald Bren Hall Irvine, CA 92697-3425 UCI Homepage UCI Directory Faculty & Staff ICS Intranet Kay Family Foundation Lab Facilities News Events Map & Directions Employment Safety Procedures Privacy Policy Apply Contact Gift © UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences ➤