10080
www.ics.uci.edu/community/news/view_news?id=1046
In the News @ Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences HOME ABOUT About the School Dean's Welcome Facts and Figures Donald Bren Hall Visit the Bren School Equity & Diversity Contact Us DEPARTMENTS Computer Science Informatics Statistics RESEARCH Research Areas Research Centers Research Highlights STUDENTS Graduate ▸ Prospective Students How to Apply Programs of Study Academic Year Plan Forms Policies Funding & Housing Computing Support Campus Resources Visit the Bren School Graduate Student Handbook Contact Undergraduate ▸ Contact Academic Advising Course Updates Academic Year Plan Petitions ICS Majors ICS Minors Policies: Academic Integrity Policies: Academic Standing Policies: Add, drop, & change options Policies: Coursework outside UCI Policies: Grade policy Policies: Laptop & computer use Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses Graduation ICS Student Life Upcoming Events Computing Support Scholarships & Fellowships Student Jobs & Internships PEOPLE Faculty Staff Graduate Students NEWS & EVENTS Newsroom Events Social Media Press Releases Annual Reports Student Blogs GET INVOLVED Make a Gift Alumni Leadership Council Corporate Partners Sponsor Projects Product Development Competition Bren school home / Community / News In the News May 2, 2016 KPCC Mark featured on KPCC's AirTalk about multitasking in the workplace Informatics Professor Gloria Mark was the featured expert on a May 2 segment of KPCC’s show AirTalk discussing her research into multitasking in the workplace. The story titled “Is monotasking the new multitasking?” relies on Mark's expertise to help answer the questions: Multitasking in the workplace is typically lauded as an ideal capability for workers. But, how much work do multitaskers get done? Is there a lack of focus, making people more susceptible to making errors? Is there value in concentrating on one task at a time? How comfortable are you making the choice to zero in on one project at a time? How much time can you let pass before you check your email or twitter feed? Can you ignore a text? Listen to the entire Mark's interview on the AirTalk story. Mark featured on KPCC's AirTalk about multitasking in the workplace < Previous Dourish discusses Chinese hackerspaces on Danish radio Next > ICS receives Excellence in Promoting Women in Undergraduate Computing Award from NCWIT More news and events News Stories Press releases Video highlights Annual reports Student Blogs Calendar of events Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or via email at matt.miller@uci.edu. Tweets by UCIbrenICS View Social Media Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences University of California, Irvine 6210 Donald Bren Hall Irvine, CA 92697-3425 UCI Homepage UCI Directory Faculty & Staff ICS Intranet Kay Family Foundation Lab Facilities News Events Map & Directions Employment Safety Procedures Privacy Policy Apply Contact Gift © UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences ➤