10094
www.ics.uci.edu/community/news/view_news?id=1076
In the News @ Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences HOME ABOUT About the School Dean's Welcome Facts and Figures Donald Bren Hall Visit the Bren School Equity & Diversity Contact Us DEPARTMENTS Computer Science Informatics Statistics RESEARCH Research Areas Research Centers Research Highlights STUDENTS Graduate ▸ Prospective Students How to Apply Programs of Study Academic Year Plan Forms Policies Funding & Housing Computing Support Campus Resources Visit the Bren School Graduate Student Handbook Contact Undergraduate ▸ Contact Academic Advising Course Updates Academic Year Plan Petitions ICS Majors ICS Minors Policies: Academic Integrity Policies: Academic Standing Policies: Add, drop, & change options Policies: Coursework outside UCI Policies: Grade policy Policies: Laptop & computer use Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses Graduation ICS Student Life Upcoming Events Computing Support Scholarships & Fellowships Student Jobs & Internships PEOPLE Faculty Staff Graduate Students NEWS & EVENTS Newsroom Events Social Media Press Releases Annual Reports Student Blogs GET INVOLVED Make a Gift Alumni Leadership Council Corporate Partners Sponsor Projects Product Development Competition Bren school home / Community / News In the News July 8, 2016 Stern receives DeGroot Prize for “Bayesian Data Analysis” Professor of Statistics Hal Stern—together with his coauthors Andrew Gelman, John B. Carlin, David B. Dunson, Aki Vehtari and Donald B. Rubin—has received the DeGroot Prize for his book, Bayesian Data Analysis. The DeGroot Prize, awarded by the International Society for Bayesian Analysis (ISBA), recognizes influential texts concerned with fundamental issues of statistical inference, decision theory and statistical applications. Named for Morris H. "Morrie" DeGroot, the prize “recognizes the impact and importance of his work in Statistics and Decision Theory, and his marked influence on the evolution of the discipline over several decades through his personal scholarship, educational and professional leadership,” according to ISBA. Bayesian Data Analysis is a leading textbook on Bayesian methods with its accessible introduction to the statistical theory. The book adopts a practical approach and offers many examples of real statistical analyses throughout. It has proven to be a useful text for undergraduates, graduate students and researchers alike. The ISBA promotes the development and application of Bayesian analysis useful in the solution of theoretical and applied problems in science, industry and government. It also sponsors and organizes meetings of the Bayesian community and publishes the electronic journal Bayesian Analysis. Stern receives DeGroot Prize for “Bayesian Data Analysis” < Previous Dean Stern's co-led CSAFE cited in White House Impact Report Next > Fowlkes awarded $377K NSF grant for geometric imaging research More news and events News Stories Press releases Video highlights Annual reports Student Blogs Calendar of events Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or via email at matt.miller@uci.edu. Tweets by UCIbrenICS View Social Media Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences University of California, Irvine 6210 Donald Bren Hall Irvine, CA 92697-3425 UCI Homepage UCI Directory Faculty & Staff ICS Intranet Kay Family Foundation Lab Facilities News Events Map & Directions Employment Safety Procedures Privacy Policy Apply Contact Gift © UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences ➤