10090
www.ics.uci.edu/community/news/view_news?id=1071
In the News @ Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences HOME ABOUT About the School Dean's Welcome Facts and Figures Donald Bren Hall Visit the Bren School Equity & Diversity Contact Us DEPARTMENTS Computer Science Informatics Statistics RESEARCH Research Areas Research Centers Research Highlights STUDENTS Graduate ▸ Prospective Students How to Apply Programs of Study Academic Year Plan Forms Policies Funding & Housing Computing Support Campus Resources Visit the Bren School Graduate Student Handbook Contact Undergraduate ▸ Contact Academic Advising Course Updates Academic Year Plan Petitions ICS Majors ICS Minors Policies: Academic Integrity Policies: Academic Standing Policies: Add, drop, & change options Policies: Coursework outside UCI Policies: Grade policy Policies: Laptop & computer use Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses Graduation ICS Student Life Upcoming Events Computing Support Scholarships & Fellowships Student Jobs & Internships PEOPLE Faculty Staff Graduate Students NEWS & EVENTS Newsroom Events Social Media Press Releases Annual Reports Student Blogs GET INVOLVED Make a Gift Alumni Leadership Council Corporate Partners Sponsor Projects Product Development Competition Bren school home / Community / News In the News June 16, 2016 Ph.D. student Tehrani awarded Link Foundation Fellowship Computer Science Ph.D. student Mahdi Abbaspour Tehrani has received the Advanced Simulation and Training Fellowship from The Link Foundation. He is the first at UC Irvine to receive the $26,000 annual fellowship, only awarded to a handful of students throughout the country. Tehrani’s fellow recipients hail from Stanford, University of Central Florida and the Rochester Institute of Technology. According to The Link Foundation website, the organization “supports programs to foster the theoretical basis, practical knowledge, and application of energy, simulation, and ocean engineering and instrumentation research, and to disseminate the results of that research through lectures, seminars and publications.” It was established in 1953 by Edwin A. Link—who built the first successful flight simulator in 1929—and his wife, Marion. Over the years, The Link Foundation has awarded more than $14 million to fund scholarly pursuits consistent with their mission. “I am very happy to receive this fellowship,” Tehrani says. “It helps me in my Ph.D. progress tremendously. With this fellowship, I won't need to work as a teaching assistant, and as a result I can focus more on my project. It also provides funding to buy all the equipment that I need in my research.” Tehrani’s main research interests lie in computer graphics, computer vision and human-computer interaction. He works with computer science professors Aditi Majumder and Gopi Meenakshisundaram—both former Link Foundation Fellows themselves—in UCI's Interactive Graphics and Visualization Lab (iGravi). Ph.D. student Tehrani awarded Link Foundation Fellowship < Previous Johnson named ISBA Fellow Next > Gillen, Ombao named ASA Fellows More news and events News Stories Press releases Video highlights Annual reports Student Blogs Calendar of events Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or via email at matt.miller@uci.edu. Tweets by UCIbrenICS View Social Media Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences University of California, Irvine 6210 Donald Bren Hall Irvine, CA 92697-3425 UCI Homepage UCI Directory Faculty & Staff ICS Intranet Kay Family Foundation Lab Facilities News Events Map & Directions Employment Safety Procedures Privacy Policy Apply Contact Gift © UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences ➤