10107
www.ics.uci.edu/community/news/view_news?id=1092
In the News @ Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences HOME ABOUT About the School Dean's Welcome Facts and Figures Donald Bren Hall Visit the Bren School Equity & Diversity Contact Us DEPARTMENTS Computer Science Informatics Statistics RESEARCH Research Areas Research Centers Research Highlights STUDENTS Graduate ▸ Prospective Students How to Apply Programs of Study Academic Year Plan Forms Policies Funding & Housing Computing Support Campus Resources Visit the Bren School Graduate Student Handbook Contact Undergraduate ▸ Contact Academic Advising Course Updates Academic Year Plan Petitions ICS Majors ICS Minors Policies: Academic Integrity Policies: Academic Standing Policies: Add, drop, & change options Policies: Coursework outside UCI Policies: Grade policy Policies: Laptop & computer use Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses Graduation ICS Student Life Upcoming Events Computing Support Scholarships & Fellowships Student Jobs & Internships PEOPLE Faculty Staff Graduate Students NEWS & EVENTS Newsroom Events Social Media Press Releases Annual Reports Student Blogs GET INVOLVED Make a Gift Alumni Leadership Council Corporate Partners Sponsor Projects Product Development Competition Bren school home / Community / News In the News October 27, 2016 DECADE Student Council helps grad students with new 'Bridging the Gap' series On Sept. 23, the DECADE (Diverse Educational Community and Doctoral Experience) Student Council for ICS & Engineering broke the silence on an event titled “Bridging the Gap.” This event was intended to bring students and professors closer together with the emphasis on clear communication skills. For the first time in the series, students had a chance to hear from two well-known and established professors, Enrico Gratton from the Department of Biomedical Engineering and Derek Dunn-Rankin from the Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering. These professors shared their perspectives on what professors are looking for in graduate students and key elements of student survival during graduate school. The first part of the session continued with a Q&A on important topics, including communicating across diverse groups, funding and how to deal with unfairness. Discussion continued during a closed session guided by graduate counselor Phong Luong and senior student panelists Sara Sameni, Claudia Ló pez and Julius Edson. Students also had a chance to hear the other part of the story from their peers. “Attending ‘Bridging the Gap’ was a meaningful and worthwhile experience,” said attendee Phoebe Chua. “Overall, the event was successful in guiding me toward creating an effective work environment.” This event will be continued as a series. To get more updates please follow us in ICS & Engineering DECADE Facebook page. The DECADE Student Council is comprised of ICS and engineering graduate students and is an initiative of the Office of Access and Inclusion (OAI). Article submitted by DECADE Student Council DECADE Student Council helps grad students with new 'Bridging the Gap' series

 < Previous UCI team awarded $2.9 million by NSF for graduate training in data science, STEM Next > UCI makes SuccessfulStudent.org’s list of best Video Game Colleges More news and events News Stories Press releases Video highlights Annual reports Student Blogs Calendar of events Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or via email at matt.miller@uci.edu. Tweets by UCIbrenICS View Social Media Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences University of California, Irvine 6210 Donald Bren Hall Irvine, CA 92697-3425 UCI Homepage UCI Directory Faculty & Staff ICS Intranet Kay Family Foundation Lab Facilities News Events Map & Directions Employment Safety Procedures Privacy Policy Apply Contact Gift © UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences ➤