10105
www.ics.uci.edu/community/news/view_news?id=1090
In the News @ Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences HOME ABOUT About the School Dean's Welcome Facts and Figures Donald Bren Hall Visit the Bren School Equity & Diversity Contact Us DEPARTMENTS Computer Science Informatics Statistics RESEARCH Research Areas Research Centers Research Highlights STUDENTS Graduate ▸ Prospective Students How to Apply Programs of Study Academic Year Plan Forms Policies Funding & Housing Computing Support Campus Resources Visit the Bren School Graduate Student Handbook Contact Undergraduate ▸ Contact Academic Advising Course Updates Academic Year Plan Petitions ICS Majors ICS Minors Policies: Academic Integrity Policies: Academic Standing Policies: Add, drop, & change options Policies: Coursework outside UCI Policies: Grade policy Policies: Laptop & computer use Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses Graduation ICS Student Life Upcoming Events Computing Support Scholarships & Fellowships Student Jobs & Internships PEOPLE Faculty Staff Graduate Students NEWS & EVENTS Newsroom Events Social Media Press Releases Annual Reports Student Blogs GET INVOLVED Make a Gift Alumni Leadership Council Corporate Partners Sponsor Projects Product Development Competition Bren school home / Community / News In the News October 20, 2016 ICS welcomes four new faculty members for fall 2016 quarter The UC Irvine Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences hired four new faculty members who started in the fall 2016 quarter. All of them are recognized leaders in their communities and will help ICS maintain its strength in a broad array of information and computer science domains. Please help us welcome these talented researchers: Rebecca Black Associate Professor of Informatics Ph.D., University of Wisconsin, Madison Rebecca Black’s research centers on the literacy and socialization practices of young people from diverse cultural and linguistic backgrounds who are writing and participating in online popular culture-inspired environments. This work includes an explicit focus on the 21st century skills and forms of literacy and learning that youth are engaging with in online spaces. Her 2008 book, Adolescents and Online Fan Fiction, explored how English language-learning youth represent their cultural and linguistic identities through fan fiction texts. Black joins ICS after serving on the faculty at UCI’s School of Education. Michele Guindani Associate Professor of Statistics Ph.D., Università Bocconi (Milan, Italy) Michele Guindani’s research interests include the use of a Bayesian (parametric and nonparametric) modeling framework for the analysis of problems in biostatistics, genetics, and spatial statistics, and the solution of inverse problems (with particular regard to pharmacokinetics/pharmacodynamics modeling). He is additionally interested in developing statistical models for data integration as well as Bayesian decision-theoretical approaches to address multiple comparison problems in hypothesis testing. Guindani joins UCI after serving as a faculty member at the University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center. Sameer Singh Assistant Professor of Computer Science Ph.D., University of Massachusetts, Amherst Sameer Singh’s current research is on large- scale and interactive machine learning applied to information extraction and natural language processing. As a Ph.D. candidate, he had the opportunity to intern at Microsoft Research, Google Research and Yahoo! Labs. Singh also was selected as a DARPA Riser, won the grand prize in the Yelp Dataset Challenge, has been awarded a Yahoo! Key Scientific Challenges Award and was a finalist for the Facebook Ph.D. Fellowship. Singh joins the ICS faculty after serving as a postdoctoral fellow at the University of Washington. Aaron Trammell Assistant Professor of Informatics Ph.D., Rutgers University Aaron Trammell was a Provost’s Postdoctoral Scholar for Faculty Diversity in Informatics and Digital Knowledge at the Annenberg School for Communication and Journalism at the University of Southern California before coming to ICS. His research is focused on revealing historical connections between games, play and the U.S. military-industrial complex. Trammell is also interested in how military ideologies become integrated into game design and how these perspectives are negotiated within the imaginations of players. ICS welcomes four new faculty members for fall 2016 quarter
 < Previous 36 ICS students to attend 2016 Grace Hopper Celebration of Women in Computing Conference Next > UCI team awarded $2.9 million by NSF for graduate training in data science, STEM More news and events News Stories Press releases Video highlights Annual reports Student Blogs Calendar of events Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or via email at matt.miller@uci.edu. Tweets by UCIbrenICS View Social Media Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences University of California, Irvine 6210 Donald Bren Hall Irvine, CA 92697-3425 UCI Homepage UCI Directory Faculty & Staff ICS Intranet Kay Family Foundation Lab Facilities News Events Map & Directions Employment Safety Procedures Privacy Policy Apply Contact Gift © UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences ➤