10103
www.ics.uci.edu/community/news/view_news?id=1088
In the News @ Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences HOME ABOUT About the School Dean's Welcome Facts and Figures Donald Bren Hall Visit the Bren School Equity & Diversity Contact Us DEPARTMENTS Computer Science Informatics Statistics RESEARCH Research Areas Research Centers Research Highlights STUDENTS Graduate ▸ Prospective Students How to Apply Programs of Study Academic Year Plan Forms Policies Funding & Housing Computing Support Campus Resources Visit the Bren School Graduate Student Handbook Contact Undergraduate ▸ Contact Academic Advising Course Updates Academic Year Plan Petitions ICS Majors ICS Minors Policies: Academic Integrity Policies: Academic Standing Policies: Add, drop, & change options Policies: Coursework outside UCI Policies: Grade policy Policies: Laptop & computer use Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses Graduation ICS Student Life Upcoming Events Computing Support Scholarships & Fellowships Student Jobs & Internships PEOPLE Faculty Staff Graduate Students NEWS & EVENTS Newsroom Events Social Media Press Releases Annual Reports Student Blogs GET INVOLVED Make a Gift Alumni Leadership Council Corporate Partners Sponsor Projects Product Development Competition Bren school home / Community / News In the News October 18, 2016 UCI News Typing while Skyping could compromise privacy By Brian Bell Professor Gene Tsudik and Italian researchers find that traditional keyboard sounds can be decoded. If you type on your desktop or laptop computer’s keyboard while participating in a Skype call, you could be vulnerable to electronic eavesdropping, according to researchers at the University of California, Irvine and in Italy.In a new study published online at arXiv, they describe a security breach whereby keystroke sounds, or acoustic emanations, can be recorded during a Skype voice or video call and later reassembled as text. “Skype is used by a huge number of people worldwide,” said co-author Gene Tsudik, Chancellor’s Professor of computer science at UCI. “We have shown that during a Skype video or audio conference, your keystrokes are subject to recording and analysis by your call partners. They can learn exactly what you type, including confidential information such as passwords and other very personal stuff.” He specified that such an attack is not possible with touch-screen or holographic keyboards and keypads. And since data transfer over Skype is encrypted, it’s extremely difficult for someone who’s not part of a call to pilfer keystrokes. However, he outlined scenarios in which this cybersecurity threat could be all too real. “The interesting thing is that people who talk on Skype are not always friends and do not always have mutual trust,” Tsudik said. “Imagine a call between lawyers on opposite sides of a legal case – or business competitors or diplomats representing different countries.” Security experts have long known of attackers’ ability to capture acoustic signals from typewriters and computer keyboards for nefarious purposes. Various brands of keyboards, from Apple to HP to Logitech, emit distinct sounds. That information combined with some knowledge of a user’s typing style could be enough to allow a spy to re-create whole texts. “It’s possible to build a profile of the acoustic emanation generated by each key on a given keyboard,” Tsudik said. “For example, the T on a MacBook Pro ‘sounds’ different from the same letter on another manufacturer’s product. It also sounds different from the R on the same keyboard, which is right next to T.” He said that if the sound of someone typing is recorded, each keystroke can be analyzed and matched to a key using machine learning techniques. The challenge in such attacks has been finding a way to place a recording device near a victim’s computer keyboard. Now the recording can be done remotely if a person is typing while utilizing a voice-over-internet-protocol application, such as Skype, Google Hangouts or Vonage. The study found that if attackers have some knowledge of the typist’s style and information about the keyboard, they have a 91.7 percent rate of accuracy in guessing a key pressed by the victim. If snoops are oblivious to both the typing style and keyboard, they still have a 41.89 percent chance of identifying which keys are being struck, since the English language has a well-known frequency distribution of letters. “Our work is yet another nail in the coffin of traditional physical keyboards that are common in modern laptop and desktop computers,” Tsudik said. “It clearly shows previously unnoticed privacy dangers of using popular VoIP technologies in conjunction with such keyboards.” The touch-screen keyboards on many smaller devices, such as smartphones and tablets, are not susceptible to these attacks. Laser projection, or holographic, keyboards are also immune. Tsudik’s co-authors on the study are Daniele Lain, a grad student at the University of Padua; Alberto Compagno, a Ph.D. student at the Sapienza University of Rome; and Mauro Conti, an associate professor at the University of Padua. – Story by Brian Bell, originally published on the UCI News website Typing while Skyping could compromise privacy < Previous Times Higher Education ranks Computer Science 38th in world, 15th in U.S. Next > 36 ICS students to attend 2016 Grace Hopper Celebration of Women in Computing Conference More news and events News Stories Press releases Video highlights Annual reports Student Blogs Calendar of events Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or via email at matt.miller@uci.edu. Tweets by UCIbrenICS View Social Media Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences University of California, Irvine 6210 Donald Bren Hall Irvine, CA 92697-3425 UCI Homepage UCI Directory Faculty & Staff ICS Intranet Kay Family Foundation Lab Facilities News Events Map & Directions Employment Safety Procedures Privacy Policy Apply Contact Gift © UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences ➤