10115
www.ics.uci.edu/community/news/view_news?id=1104
In the News @ Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences HOME ABOUT About the School Dean's Welcome Facts and Figures Donald Bren Hall Visit the Bren School Equity & Diversity Contact Us DEPARTMENTS Computer Science Informatics Statistics RESEARCH Research Areas Research Centers Research Highlights STUDENTS Graduate ▸ Prospective Students How to Apply Programs of Study Academic Year Plan Forms Policies Funding & Housing Computing Support Campus Resources Visit the Bren School Graduate Student Handbook Contact Undergraduate ▸ Contact Academic Advising Course Updates Academic Year Plan Petitions ICS Majors ICS Minors Policies: Academic Integrity Policies: Academic Standing Policies: Add, drop, & change options Policies: Coursework outside UCI Policies: Grade policy Policies: Laptop & computer use Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses Graduation ICS Student Life Upcoming Events Computing Support Scholarships & Fellowships Student Jobs & Internships PEOPLE Faculty Staff Graduate Students NEWS & EVENTS Newsroom Events Social Media Press Releases Annual Reports Student Blogs GET INVOLVED Make a Gift Alumni Leadership Council Corporate Partners Sponsor Projects Product Development Competition Bren school home / Community / News In the News December 9, 2016 Cylance commits $50K to UCI's Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems to support seminar series, Ph.D. recruitment Cylance Inc. has provided a gift donation of $50,000 to Computer Science Professors Alex Ihler and Padhraic Smyth to support the activities of UC Irvine’s Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems (CML). The funds will be used to support the Center’s weekly seminar series, to bring distinguished speakers to campus and for recruitment of new Ph.D. students in machine learning. Founded in 2012, Cylance now has 750 employees to help develop cybersecurity software using machine learning and artificial intelligence techniques. Cylance is also a corporate partner of the UC Irvine’s Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences. The first distinguished speaker seminar on Jan. 27, 2017 will be by Ruslan Salakhutdinov, a professor of computer science at CMU who was recently appointed director of artificial intelligence research at Apple. "We are very grateful for this generous gift from Cylance, which will significantly enhance our ability to bring in leading researchers to speak at UCI and attract the brightest Ph.D. students to participate in our machine learning research program," said Smyth. Cylance commits $50K to UCI's Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems to support seminar series, Ph.D. recruitment

 < Previous UCI ranked 7th best university for coding in U.S. by HackerRank Next > Ito named to Cartoon Network's STEAM Team More news and events News Stories Press releases Video highlights Annual reports Student Blogs Calendar of events Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or via email at matt.miller@uci.edu. Tweets by UCIbrenICS View Social Media Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences University of California, Irvine 6210 Donald Bren Hall Irvine, CA 92697-3425 UCI Homepage UCI Directory Faculty & Staff ICS Intranet Kay Family Foundation Lab Facilities News Events Map & Directions Employment Safety Procedures Privacy Policy Apply Contact Gift © UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences ➤