10127
www.ics.uci.edu/community/news/view_news?id=1117
In the News @ Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences HOME ABOUT About the School Dean's Welcome Facts and Figures Donald Bren Hall Visit the Bren School Equity & Diversity Contact Us DEPARTMENTS Computer Science Informatics Statistics RESEARCH Research Areas Research Centers Research Highlights STUDENTS Graduate ▸ Prospective Students How to Apply Programs of Study Academic Year Plan Forms Policies Funding & Housing Computing Support Campus Resources Visit the Bren School Graduate Student Handbook Contact Undergraduate ▸ Contact Academic Advising Course Updates Academic Year Plan Petitions ICS Majors ICS Minors Policies: Academic Integrity Policies: Academic Standing Policies: Add, drop, & change options Policies: Coursework outside UCI Policies: Grade policy Policies: Laptop & computer use Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses Graduation ICS Student Life Upcoming Events Computing Support Scholarships & Fellowships Student Jobs & Internships PEOPLE Faculty Staff Graduate Students NEWS & EVENTS Newsroom Events Social Media Press Releases Annual Reports Student Blogs GET INVOLVED Make a Gift Alumni Leadership Council Corporate Partners Sponsor Projects Product Development Competition Bren school home / Community / News In the News December 22, 2016 Most talked about video games on campus for 2016 If you were wondering what the most popular games on the UC Irvine campus were this year, then look no further. We spoke with UCI eSports Arena Coordinator Kathy Chiang (B.S., Computer Game Science, ’16) about the most played and talked about games on campus this year. Overwatch The Game: Overwatch is a team-based multiplayer first-person shooter video game developed and published by Blizzard Entertainment. It’s set in the future — a future many gamers will tell you is worth fighting for several hours each day. Matches are intense, highly stylized showdowns between you, friends and internet rivals. The Draw: Overwatch is thrilling to play and brings joy to all. That said, it’s the kind of game that supports teamwork and makes a good time with good friends even better. Plus, there are holiday skins to download for free! Kathy’s Take: “Overwatch is probably our most popular game in the arena; it's hard to tell if there are more people playing the new FPS or League of Legends.” Battlefield 1 The Game: Battlefield 1 is a first-person shooter developed by DICE that is now in its 15th installment of the franchise. This epic military series transports players into the World War I this time around. The Draw: With the option of single or multiplayer, Battlefield I provides a compelling story that makes a player feel as though they are really transported back in time, not simply looking back. The game has plenty of flexibility for players to explore WWI. Kathy’s Take: “Battlefield 1 has also been performing well, especially since everyone in the arena can play the game for free.” Dark Souls III The Game: Dark Souls III is the third installment of the fantasy role-playing game by developers FromSoftware with sufficient amounts of brutal, merciless game play. The Draw: The story and the world design, both dark and treacherous, easily draw players back into its trademarked sorcery and sword combat. Not to mention the challenging, yet encouraging level design that allows players to discover their own paths towards completion. Kathy’s Take: “Dark Souls III was a huge success on release, but since few people played the game in the arena, we plan to remove the game from the computers over the winter break. We've found that most people come to the arena to play socially and with friends, so despite the game's popularity, I haven't seen it played much.” Rounding out the 10 most popular games around campus for 2016: Final Fantasy XV The Witcher 3 Monster Hunter Generations Uncharted 4 Pokemon Go Civilization VI Street Fighter V Other notable games: Stardew Valley (for being such a well-received indie game) Pokemon Sun/Moon (for being yet another popular great game released by The Pokemon Co.) Let us know what your top games were for 2016 by taking our online survey. — Katherine Li Smith Most talked about video games on campus for 2016 < Previous ICS alumnus named to OC Register’s 100 Most Influential list Next > ICS welcomes new dean More news and events News Stories Press releases Video highlights Annual reports Student Blogs Calendar of events Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or via email at matt.miller@uci.edu. Tweets by UCIbrenICS View Social Media Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences University of California, Irvine 6210 Donald Bren Hall Irvine, CA 92697-3425 UCI Homepage UCI Directory Faculty & Staff ICS Intranet Kay Family Foundation Lab Facilities News Events Map & Directions Employment Safety Procedures Privacy Policy Apply Contact Gift © UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences ➤