10135
www.ics.uci.edu/community/news/view_news?id=1126
In the News @ Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences HOME ABOUT About the School Dean's Welcome Facts and Figures Donald Bren Hall Visit the Bren School Equity & Diversity Contact Us DEPARTMENTS Computer Science Informatics Statistics RESEARCH Research Areas Research Centers Research Highlights STUDENTS Graduate ▸ Prospective Students How to Apply Programs of Study Academic Year Plan Forms Policies Funding & Housing Computing Support Campus Resources Visit the Bren School Graduate Student Handbook Contact Undergraduate ▸ Contact Academic Advising Course Updates Academic Year Plan Petitions ICS Majors ICS Minors Policies: Academic Integrity Policies: Academic Standing Policies: Add, drop, & change options Policies: Coursework outside UCI Policies: Grade policy Policies: Laptop & computer use Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses Graduation ICS Student Life Upcoming Events Computing Support Scholarships & Fellowships Student Jobs & Internships PEOPLE Faculty Staff Graduate Students NEWS & EVENTS Newsroom Events Social Media Press Releases Annual Reports Student Blogs GET INVOLVED Make a Gift Alumni Leadership Council Corporate Partners Sponsor Projects Product Development Competition Bren school home / Community / News In the News February 1, 2017 Data Scientist ranked top U.S. job by Glassdoor Data scientist proves to be the top job in America, again. The Harvard Business Review named it, “the sexist job of the 21st century” back in 2012. Then earlier this week, recruiting website Glassdoor released its annual ranking of the 50 best jobs in America; of particular interest, the 17 best jobs that pay over $100,000. On both Glassdoor lists, data scientist was ranked No. 1. Data scientist was reported to have a median base salary of $110,000 and a job satisfaction rating of 4.4 (out of 5). Glassdoor estimates that there are roughly 4,184 current job openings for the position, a good sign for job seekers. In addition to the handsome paycheck and high levels of job satisfaction, data scientists can often work and play in top metropolitan cities, such as New York, Chicago, Seattle, the Bay Area, Honolulu and right here in Irvine. Data science is often a misunderstood, disregarded as a position that works with Excel spredsheets or a last-ditch effort by companies to gain insights from social data; however, data science is neither of these. In fact, data science is an interdisciplinary area of study with a dual emphasis on statistics (and mathematical aspects of data analysis) and computer science (including algorithms, data structures, data management and machine learning). Data scientists use statistical and computing principles to analyze raw data, both big and small, and then process, organize and structure it into meaningful information for industry. Until recently, curating the right skills to fit into this position was a labor unto itself. Then three years ago UC Irvine’s Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences launched the only undergraduate data science degree in the UC system. Today the major prepares students for a career in data analysis, combining foundational statistical concepts with computational principles from computer science. More information about the B.S. in data science can be found here. — Katherine Li Smith Data Scientist ranked top U.S. job by Glassdoor
 < Previous Tsudik's biometrics security research paper featured in February issue of CACM Next > Global Game Jam connects UCI with OC's game design community More news and events News Stories Press releases Video highlights Annual reports Student Blogs Calendar of events Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or via email at matt.miller@uci.edu. Tweets by UCIbrenICS View Social Media Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences University of California, Irvine 6210 Donald Bren Hall Irvine, CA 92697-3425 UCI Homepage UCI Directory Faculty & Staff ICS Intranet Kay Family Foundation Lab Facilities News Events Map & Directions Employment Safety Procedures Privacy Policy Apply Contact Gift © UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences ➤