10138
www.ics.uci.edu/community/scholarships
Scholarships & Fellowships @ Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences HOME ABOUT About the School Dean's Welcome Facts and Figures Donald Bren Hall Visit the Bren School Equity & Diversity Contact Us DEPARTMENTS Computer Science Informatics Statistics RESEARCH Research Areas Research Centers Research Highlights STUDENTS Graduate ▸ Prospective Students How to Apply Programs of Study Academic Year Plan Forms Policies Funding & Housing Computing Support Campus Resources Visit the Bren School Graduate Student Handbook Contact Undergraduate ▸ Contact Academic Advising Course Updates Academic Year Plan Petitions ICS Majors ICS Minors Policies: Academic Integrity Policies: Academic Standing Policies: Add, drop, & change options Policies: Coursework outside UCI Policies: Grade policy Policies: Laptop & computer use Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses Graduation ICS Student Life Upcoming Events Computing Support Scholarships & Fellowships Student Jobs & Internships PEOPLE Faculty Staff Graduate Students NEWS & EVENTS Newsroom Events Social Media Press Releases Annual Reports Student Blogs GET INVOLVED Make a Gift Alumni Leadership Council Corporate Partners Sponsor Projects Product Development Competition Bren school home / Community / Scholarships and fellowships Scholarships & Fellowships The Bren School of ICS offers students the following competitive scholarships, fellowships and student awards. These awards are possible through the generous support of our community, industry friends, and ICS endowments. These individuals and companies, through their commitment to higher education, play an active role in the future of information technology by helping deserving and highly competent students afford a quality education. Learn more about sponsoring a scholarship or fellowship to support an ICS student's educational goal. You can also make an online gift > How to Apply for an Award/Scholarship: ICS Awards and Scholarships will be open for applications in January 2020. If you have questions, please contact the program administrator. Scholarships BOB & BARBARA KLEIST ENDOWED TRANSFER STUDENT AWARD IN ICS The Bob and Barbara Kleist Endowment was established through the generous donation from Bob and Barbara Kleist themselves. This award is designated to support undergraduate students who have transferred to UCI from a community college and who are preparing for a career in the computer science field. Students must have a declared major in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences. AWARDS: 2 awards of $2,500 each SELECTION CRITERIA: Transfer students only Academic excellence Essay required STEVE & JENNY MIZUSAWA ENDOWED STUDENT AWARD IN ICS The Steve and Jenny Mizusawa Student Award Endowment was established in 2005 through the generous donation from Steve and Jenny themselves. This award is designated to support undergraduate juniors and seniors preparing for a career in the computer science field. Students must have a declared major in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences. AWARD: 1 award of $1,500 SELECTION CRITERIA: Juniors and Seniors Minimum ICS GPA of 3.0 Self nomination and/or faculty recommendation Essay required ACCENTURE ENDOWED OUTSTANDING JUNIOR AWARD IN ICS The Accenture Endowed Outstanding Junior Award was established through and endowment in 1992 by Accenture to recognize and financially assist selected student recipients during their final year at UC Irvine. AWARD: 1 award of $1,500 SELECTION CRITERIA: 3.0 ICS GPA minimum Graduate in the following academic year 40% academic standing 30% demonstrated leadership abilities 30% civic and/or charitable involvement (eg. volunteerism with various charity or civic minded organizations or individuals efforts taken by the applicants) Essay required ESSIE LEV ENDOWED MEMORIAL TRANSFER STUDENT AWARD IN ICS The Essie Lev Endowed Memorial Student Award was established by Sara Sandel to honor her sister and former UC Irvine academic counselor Essie Lev. The award is designated for transfer or re-entering undergraduate students with demonstrated financial need. Students must have a declared major in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences. AWARDS: 2 awards of $1,500 each SELECTION CRITERIA: Transfer or re-entry students only ICS majors Demonstrated campus or community service Essay required JULIAN FELDMAN ENDOWED SCHOLARSHIP IN ICS The Julian Feldman Scholarship was established in 1998 by Jim Hobbs ’73 in honor of ICS Professor Emeritus Julian Feldman. The scholarship used to be funded through an annual gift made by Jim and Trinidad Hobbs. In 2006, the scholarship was turned into an Endowed Scholarship, now called, The Julian Feldman Endowed Scholarship in ICS, funded through Jim Hobbs’ annual gifts as well as gifts from ICS’ Annual Fund campaign. AWARDS: 4 awards of $2,000 each SELECTION CRITERIA: High academic standing Possess demonstrated leadership abilities No essay required KENNETH SIMMS ENDOWED MEMORIAL SCHOLARSHIP IN ICS The Kenneth Simms Memorial Scholarship endowment was established in 1989 by Laguna Software to honor UCI alumnus and one of the most significant contributors to the development of the PICK Operating System, Kenneth Simms ’70. AWARDS: 4 awards of $2,000 each SELECTION CRITERIA: Academic excellence Recipient must be a U.S. citizen or a permanent resident The recipient should be preparing for a profession in the field of computer science The recipient is selected by the selection committe according to the guidelines Demonstrated financial need No essay required SUMALEE JOHNSON TRANSFER STUDENT AWARD IN ICS The Sumalee Johnson Transfer Student Award was established through the generous donation from ICS alumnus, Sumlalee Johnson '82. This award is designated to support undergraduate students who have transferred to UCI from a community college and who are preparing for a career in the computer science field. Students must have a declared major in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences. AWARD: 1 award of $2,000 SELECTION CRITERIA: Transfer students only 3.2 ICS GPA minimum Essay required RICHARD AND PATRICIA UTTS ENDOWED DATA SCIENCE FOR SOCIAL GOOD AWARD IN ICS The Richard and Patricia Utts Endowed Data Science for Social Good Award was established by Statistics Professor Emerita, Jessica Utts, to honor her parents who “cared very much about social causes.” The endowment is also a token of her appreciation to the Department of Statistics and the School of ICS. The award is for undergraduate students with a data science major in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences. AWARD: 1 award of $5,000 SELECTION CRITERIA: Data Science majors 3.0 GPA minimum Essay required Fellowships Richard N. Taylor Graduate Award in Software Engineering The Richard N. Taylor Graduate Award in Software Engineering was established through the generous contributions of his former graduate students and other ICS alumni in recognition of his distinguished career in and outstanding contributions to the field of software engineering. Prof. Taylor took great pride in advising and working with graduate students and left a legacy of alumni who have gone on to their own careers as professors, educators, entrepreneurs, and leaders in industry. This award continues that legacy. Eligibility: Open to all Ph.D. students in Software Engineering at the Bren School of ICS Self-nomination Application: A one-to-two-page essay that answers the following questions: What is the main goal of your research work? What will be the tangible benefits to society of achieving that goal? What are the technical problems that make the goal difficult to achieve? What is the key insight underlying your approach (i.e., how does your approach overcome the technical problems that prevented progress in the past)? How can progress be measured, and what have you achieved thus far? CV or resume Roberta Ellen Lamb Memorial Endowed Fellowship The Roberta Ellen Lamb Memorial Fellowship was established through an endowment in 2007 by Bob and Mosselle Pione to honor the memory of their daughter, former ICS Associate Professor of Informatics Roberta Lamb. Roberta passed away on November 29, 2006, after a short battle with cancer. Awards: 1 award of $5,000 for Fall Quarter Eligibility: Open to Ph.D. students in the Department of Informatics Faculty nominate students in advanced candidacy Working on their dissertation. Application: Overview of Research or Dissertation Topic (1 page minimum) CV or Resume Letters of Recommendation Rob Kling Memorial Endowed Fellowship The Rob Kling Memorial Fellowship was established to honor the life and work of the late Rob Kling. Rob Kling was Professor of Information Systems and Information Science at the School of Library and Information Science at Indiana University. He was born in August 1944 and passed away unexpectedly at 58 years of age on May 15, 2003, in Bloomington, IN. He was a visionary and institution builder, who tirelessly promoted a new area of research, Social Informatics, the interdisciplinary study of the design, uses and consequences of information and communication technologies (ICTs). Kling was a graduate of Columbia University, and earned his MS and Ph.D. in Artificial Intelligence at Stanford University. After two years as assistant professor at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, he joined the Department of Information and Computer Science at UC Irvine. Kling spent more than 20 years at Irvine (1973 – 1996), where his interests shifted to studying the role of computers in society, organizations, and public policy. Awards: 1 award of $2,000 for Fall Quarter Eligibility: Open to Ph.D. students in the department of informatics, with a preference for students working in the area of social informatics Minimum GPA of 3.5 Full-time Faculty nomination Application: Overview of Research or Dissertation Topic (1 page minimum) CV or Resume Letters of Recommendation ICS Innovation Endowed Fellowship The ICS Innovation Fellowship Endowed Fund was established to support the work of promising graduate students enrolled in one of ICS’ PhD degrees. Recipients will be selected based on either their potential to produce socially-relevant, innovative work or the innovative nature of their current work at ICS. The ICS Innovation Fellowship Endowed Fund was established during ICS’ 40th anniversary in honor of Julian Feldman, Fred Tonge and ICS founding faculty, and in recognition of the future potential of ICS. The fund was initially set up through a generous gift from ICS alumnus, Greg Hopwood and his wife Christine. Awards: 1 award of $2,000 or $2,500 for Fall Quarter Eligibility: Open to all Ph.D. students enrolled at the Bren School with projects or research that are socially-relevant or innovative in nature Incoming, continuing and advanced candidacy Ph.D. students Application: Must submit a one (1) page abstract of an innovative project or research that you are working on Robert L. Newcomb Memorial Endowed Graduate Award The Robert L. Newcomb Graduate Award was established through and endowment in 2013 by Bob Newcomb. This fund will support fellowships for bright and deserving graduate students in the Statistics Department at the Bren School. Through this fund, we will perpetuate Bob’s dedication to student research and their future careers. Awards: 1 award of $750 plus plaque for Fall Quarter Eligibility: Open to Ph.D. students in the department of statistics Statistics graduate student with the best performance on that year’s comprehensive examination. Application: Committee selection More community Alumni Parents Leadership Council News Give a gift Tweets by UCIbrenICS View Social Media Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences University of California, Irvine 6210 Donald Bren Hall Irvine, CA 92697-3425 UCI Homepage UCI Directory Faculty & Staff ICS Intranet Kay Family Foundation Lab Facilities News Events Map & Directions Employment Safety Procedures Privacy Policy Apply Contact Gift © UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences ➤