10141
www.ics.uci.edu/computerscience/grad
Grad students participate in global UCSB iCTF hacking competition; place third among U.S. teams Explore Contact Us Faculty Research Research Areas Research Centers Graduate Degrees Computer Science Programs Current Graduate Students Undergraduate Degrees News & Events News Seminar Series Distinguished Lecture Series Research Showcase Apply Now Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Faculty Candidates Grad students participate in global UCSB iCTF hacking competition; place third among U.S. teams June 22, 2015 Graduate students from the SPROUT (Security & Privacy Research OUTfit) and SSLLAB (Secure Systems & Software Laboratory) research groups at UCI collaborated as a team, called KHCZUU Labs, to participate in this year’s UC Santa Barbara International Capture The Flag (iCTF) competition. The iCTF contest is an annual competition where academic teams pit their skills at cyber attacks and defenses against each other. In security capture-the-flag events, the teams compete to try to find vulnerabilities in programs provided by the organizers and hack other teams to steal “flags,” while defending their own flags. CTF events provide a realistic but safe environment to learn and practice how real-world computer security works. Even though most of the UCI team members were new to the competition, KHCZUU still managed to place third out of the U.S. teams and 31st overall, out of nearly 100 participating teams. “The whole team is looking forward to next year’s competition and plans to practice the necessary computer security skills in the meantime,” says UCI Ph.D. candidate Stephen Crane. “For most on the team, this was their first experience with capture-the-flag-style competitions, and the competition was an amazing learning experience for everyone who participated.” Congratulations to everyone who competed on this year’s KHCZUU team: Brian Belleville, Stephen Crane, Sky Faber, Cesar Ghali, Julian Lettner, Ekin Oguz, Mohaned Qunaibit, Marc Schlosberg, and Stijn Volckaert (visiting scholar from Ghent University). Watch a time-lapse video of the competition here. « Tsudik Co-Authors Award-Winning Student Paper on ‘Violating Consumer Anonymity’ Info Security Magazine: “NSA: Business as Usual” (Tsudik quoted) » Latest news ICS Students Win Best Web App at HackSC May 21, 2019 ICS Alumnus Nithin Jilla’s Nonprofit Inspires Students to Love STEM May 15, 2019 Upcoming Symposium on Cutting-Edge AI & Biomedicine Research May 6, 2019 Unlocking Data for Smart Firefighting May 2, 2019 ICS Finalist in UCI Stock Market Competition Two Years in a Row April 30, 2019 © 2019 UC Regents Feedback Privacy Policy