10142
www.ics.uci.edu/computerscience/news
News Explore Contact Us Faculty Research Research Areas Research Centers Graduate Degrees Computer Science Programs Current Graduate Students Undergraduate Degrees News & Events News Seminar Series Distinguished Lecture Series Research Showcase Apply Now Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Faculty Candidates ICS Students Win Best Web App at HackSC May 21, 2019 Last month at HackSC, a large-scale hackathon held at USC, the winner of the “Best Mobile or Web App” went to Align. Created by a team of students from the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS), the app helps people create interest-driven support groups. [Read more…] ICS Alumnus Nithin Jilla’s Nonprofit Inspires Students to Love STEM May 15, 2019 Middle school students found ways to escape ghosts in The Silent Forest, battle monsters in Pyramid Escape, and avoid balloon-popping birds in Piggy Pop — the top three mobile app games at a 2018 AppJam+ showcase. But the students weren’t merely playing the games — they had developed them through the AppJam+ program, part of the Dreams for Schools organization founded by UCI alumnus Nithin Jilla ’13. “The whole experience is a crash course in mobile app development and computer coding, designed to get kids excited about STEM, specifically computer science,” says Jilla. “In creating their own mobile app video games, students are able to create something they see in their everyday lives and relate it back to how versatile knowledge in STEM can be.” [Read more…] Upcoming Symposium on Cutting-Edge AI & Biomedicine Research May 6, 2019 Artificial intelligence has the potential to completely transform the healthcare industry. As noted in a recent Forbes article, “its impact promises to be truly life-changing.” To realize this potential, however, researchers first must tackle a variety of challenges. To better understand these challenges and how best to address them, UCI’s Institute for Genomics (IGB) and the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS) are sponsoring the AI & Biomedicine Symposium on May 31, 2019. The all-day event, being held in the Calit2 Auditorium, opens at 10 a.m. with the talk, “Deep Learning in Genomics and Biomedical Image Analysis,” by Computer Science Professor Xiaohui Xie. [Read more…] Unlocking Data for Smart Firefighting May 2, 2019 It has been more than 15 years since Computer Science Professor Nalini Venkatasubramanian first realized the relevance of her research to firefighting. “We started looking at the area of information flow for emergency response soon after 9/11,” she says, referring to her work with Computer Science Professor Sharad Mehrotra on a large National Science Foundation (NSF) Information Technology Research project called Rescue. “In the process of working through the project… it came to our attention that firefighting was a domain that could use a lot of the technologies we were developing.” [Read more…] ICS Finalist in UCI Stock Market Competition Two Years in a Row April 30, 2019 Students from the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS) were among the top three finalists in both the first and second annual Stock Market Competition at UCI, showing how combining computer science skills with financial knowledge can be a lucrative endeavor. Senior YuHeng Li, majoring in informatics and minoring in economics, took second place this year, earning $750 for his strategy to invest $100,000 in virtual funds. Last year, computer science major Praneet Sah took third place as a freshman, winning $500. Both were able to leverage their technology background throughout the four-month competition, which aims to teach financial literacy to undergraduates. [Read more…] Professor Irani Receives Distinguished Service Award April 25, 2019 Computer Science Professor Sandy Irani was recently recognized for her “dedicated and indispensable service to the theory community.” The steering committee of the IEEE Technical Committee on Mathematical Foundations of Computing (TCMF) and IEEE Symposium on Foundations of Computer Science (FOCS) gave her the TCMF Distinguished Service Award — an award given “whenever a worthy person materializes.” [Read more…] ICS Partnership with Allen Institute for AI Advances Machine Learning April 24, 2019 The mission of the Allen Institute for Artificial Intelligence (AI2) is to “contribute to humanity through high-impact AI research and engineering.” In support of that mission, the nonprofit — started by Microsoft co-founder Paul Allen — often collaborates with other institutions, and one of its latest partnerships is with the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS). “Researchers from a diversity of institutions bring different perspectives, motivations and previous experiences to a cross-institution collaboration,” says Matt Gardner, a senior research scientist at AI2. “This is a huge help in both identifying and executing on the most promising new research directions.” As a member of the AllenNLP team, Gardner’s research focuses on deep learning for natural language processing, and he’s now furthering that work as a visiting scholar at UCI. [Read more…] Cyber@UCI: Club’s Growing Cybersecurity Community Develops Third-Place Team April 15, 2019 In 2017, when the Cyber@UCI student club was just starting out, computer science major and founding club president Howard Chen noted in an article, “in two years, I want Cyber to be an official ICS club and I want a competitive cybersecurity team operating out of UCI.” Fast forward to 2019, and Cyber@UCI is not only an official club of the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS), but its National Collegiate Cyber Defense Competition (CCDC) team advanced to the Western Regional Championship for the first time and took third place overall! [Read more…] Charless Fowlkes Named Chancellor’s Fellow April 9, 2019 Computer Science Professor Charless Fowlkes was recently named Chancellor’s Fellow, effective July 1, 2019, through June 30, 2022. The title recognizes his outstanding record in research, teaching, mentoring and service. Chancellor’s Fellows are “faculty with tenure whose recent achievements in scholarship evidence extraordinary promise for world-class contributions to knowledge, and whose pattern of contributions evidences strong trajectory to distinction.” As part of this recognition, Fowlkes will receive $25,000 annually to support his research efforts during the three-year appointment. [Read more…] ﻿Singh, Thornton Recognized for Excellence in Undergraduate Teaching April 8, 2019 Continuing Lecturer Alex Thornton and Assistant Professor of Computer Science Sameer Singh will be recognized for Excellence in Undergraduate Teaching at UCI’s 26th Annual Celebration of Teaching. The two faculty members of the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS) will receive their awards at a dinner reception on April 18, 2019 at UCI’s Student Center. [Read more…] 1 2 3 … 19 Next Page » © 2019 UC Regents Feedback Privacy Policy