10201
www.ics.uci.edu/employment/employ_faculty.php
faculty positions @ the bren school of information and computer sciences HOME ABOUT About the School Dean's Welcome Facts and Figures Donald Bren Hall Visit the Bren School Equity & Diversity Contact Us DEPARTMENTS Computer Science Informatics Statistics RESEARCH Research Areas Research Centers Research Highlights STUDENTS Graduate ▸ Prospective Students How to Apply Programs of Study Academic Year Plan Forms Policies Funding & Housing Computing Support Campus Resources Visit the Bren School Graduate Student Handbook Contact Undergraduate ▸ Contact Academic Advising Course Updates Academic Year Plan Petitions ICS Majors ICS Minors Policies: Academic Integrity Policies: Academic Standing Policies: Add, drop, & change options Policies: Coursework outside UCI Policies: Grade policy Policies: Laptop & computer use Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses Graduation ICS Student Life Upcoming Events Computing Support Scholarships & Fellowships Student Jobs & Internships PEOPLE Faculty Staff Graduate Students NEWS & EVENTS Newsroom Events Social Media Press Releases Annual Reports Student Blogs GET INVOLVED Make a Gift Alumni Leadership Council Corporate Partners Sponsor Projects Product Development Competition Bren school home / Employment Faculty Positions University of California, Irvine Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences Tenured and Tenure-track Professor and Professor of Teaching Positions The Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS) at the University of California, Irvine (UCI), home of the departments of Computer Science, Informatics, and Statistics, is seeking exceptional candidates for multiple tenured/tenure-track Professor and Professor of Teaching positions. Our open positions for 2018-19 are: Professor Series Statistics Computer Science: Systems and Databases Computer Science: Data Science and Theory Bioinformatics with emphasis in AI/Machine Learning Human-Computer Interaction Professor of Teaching Series Computer Science Statistics ICS is one of only five computing-focused schools among the Association of American Universities (AAU) members. The U.S. News and World Report 2018 Best Global Universities ranking identifies UCI as a top 75 university in computer science and one of the top 30 universities for computer science in the United States. The School’s 90+ faculty members include 2 NAE Members, 14 ACM Fellows, 9 IEEE Fellows, 9 AAAS Fellows and many other national award winners. The University of California, Irvine is ranked as a top ten public university by U.S. News and World Report, and has been identified by the New York Times as No. 1 among U.S. universities that do the most for low-income students. UCI has done what no other school has done—rank among Sierra’s Top 10 most sustainable colleges for eight years in a row, and is ranked number 1 for 2018. UCI is located in Orange County, 4 miles from the Pacific Ocean and 45 miles south of Los Angeles. Irvine is one of the safest communities in the U.S. and offers a very pleasant year-round climate, numerous recreational and cultural opportunities, and one of the highest-ranked public school systems in the nation. The University of California, Irvine is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer advancing inclusive excellence. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, disability, age, protected veteran status, or other protected categories covered by the UC nondiscrimination policy. A recipient of an NSF ADVANCE award for gender equity, UCI is responsive to the needs of dual career couples, supports work-life balance through an array of family-friendly policies, and is dedicated to broadening participation in higher education. Student employment Please visit Handshake to browse current student opportunities. More employment Endowed Bren Chairs Faculty positions Lecturer Positions Student/alumni job board Staff positions Tweets by UCIbrenICS View Social Media Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences University of California, Irvine 6210 Donald Bren Hall Irvine, CA 92697-3425 UCI Homepage UCI Directory Faculty & Staff ICS Intranet Kay Family Foundation Lab Facilities News Events Map & Directions Employment Safety Procedures Privacy Policy Apply Contact Gift © UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences ➤