10242
www.ics.uci.edu/faculty/../employment/employ_lecturer.php
lecturer positions @ the bren school of information and computer sciences HOME ABOUT About the School Dean's Welcome Facts and Figures Donald Bren Hall Visit the Bren School Equity & Diversity Contact Us DEPARTMENTS Computer Science Informatics Statistics RESEARCH Research Areas Research Centers Research Highlights STUDENTS Graduate ▸ Prospective Students How to Apply Programs of Study Academic Year Plan Forms Policies Funding & Housing Computing Support Campus Resources Visit the Bren School Graduate Student Handbook Contact Undergraduate ▸ Contact Academic Advising Course Updates Academic Year Plan Petitions ICS Majors ICS Minors Policies: Academic Integrity Policies: Academic Standing Policies: Add, drop, & change options Policies: Coursework outside UCI Policies: Grade policy Policies: Laptop & computer use Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses Graduation ICS Student Life Upcoming Events Computing Support Scholarships & Fellowships Student Jobs & Internships PEOPLE Faculty Staff Graduate Students NEWS & EVENTS Newsroom Events Social Media Press Releases Annual Reports Student Blogs GET INVOLVED Make a Gift Alumni Leadership Council Corporate Partners Sponsor Projects Product Development Competition Bren school home / Employment Lecturer Positions Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences Department of Computer Science Quarterly Part-Time Lecturer Position The Department of Computer Science has the occasional need for full-time and part-time lecturers in the various areas of Computer Science. Each application should contain: a cover letter, curriculum vitae, a description of teaching interests, all available teaching evaluations and 2-3 letters of reference. In addition, a statement of applicant's contributions to diversity is required –statement addressing how your past and/or potential contributions to diversity will advance UCI's Commitment to Inclusive Excellence. Salaries are commensurate with technical and teaching experience and/or level of education. Appointments may be made at varying percentages of time. All application materials must be uploaded at: https://recruit.ap.uci.edu/apply/JPF04811 Screening of applications will begin immediately for the 2018-2019 academic year. Applications for Fall Quarter positions should be received on or before August 31, 2018. Applications for Winter Quarter positions should be received on or before December 1, 2018. Applications for Spring Quarter positions should be received on or before March 1, 2019. The University of California, Irvine is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer advancing inclusive excellence. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, disability, age, protected veteran status, or other protected categories covered by the UC nondiscrimination policy. Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences Department of Computer Science Full-Time Lecturer Position The Department of Computer Science at the University of California, Irvine, invites applications for full-time lecturer position starting with the 2018-2019 academic year. The academic year begins in late September and ends mid-June. The pay period for full-time lecturer appointments is from July 1 through June 30 (a nine-month service period paid over twelve months.) Current teaching responsibilities include teaching six - seven (quarter/trimester) courses per year, for majors and non-majors, and curriculum development. Additional administrative duties may be assigned by the Chair of the Department. Review of applications will begin on August 1, 2018 and will continue until the position is filled. Each application should contain: a cover letter, curriculum vitae, a description of teaching interests, all available teaching evaluations and 3-5 letters of reference. In addition, a statement of applicant's contributions to diversity is required – statement addressing how your past and/or potential contributions to diversity will advance UCI's Commitment to Inclusive Excellence. All materials must be uploaded at: https://recruit.ap.uci.edu/apply/JPF04830 The University of California, Irvine is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer advancing inclusive excellence. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, disability, age, protected veteran status, or other protected categories covered by the UC nondiscrimination policy. Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences Department of Statistics Part-Time Lecturer Position The Department of Statistics has the occasional need for part-time lecturers in the various areas of Statistics. Desirable qualifications include a Ph.D. or M.S in Statistics, or equivalent education or experience in a related field plus successful university-level teaching experience. Salaries are commensurate with technical and teaching experience and/or level of education. Appointments may be made at varying percentages of time. Application information may be found at https://recruit.ap.uci.edu/apply/JPF04645 The University of California, Irvine is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer advancing inclusive excellence. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, disability, age, protected veteran status, or other protected categories covered by the UC nondiscrimination policy. Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences Department of Informatics Quarterly Part-Time Lecturer Position The Department of Informatics in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences has the occasional need for part-time lecturers to assist us in delivering a diverse curriculum. Desirable qualifications include a Ph.D. or M.S in Informatics, (or an equivalent combination of degree and experience) and exhibit a compelling teaching portfolio, as well as a clear vision for teaching to a diverse audience at the university level. The department is highly interdisciplinary with faculty backgrounds in anthropology, computer science, design, education, health informatics, humanities, media arts, organizational studies, psychology, and software engineering. Applications for Fall Quarter positions are due on or before August 31, 2018. Applications for Winter Quarter positions are due on or before December 2, 2018. Applications for Spring Quarter positions are due on or before March 1, 2019. Application information may be found at https://recruit.ap.uci.edu/apply/JPF04810 More employment Endowed Bren Chairs Faculty positions Lecturer Positions Student/alumni job board Staff positions Tweets by UCIbrenICS View Social Media Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences University of California, Irvine 6210 Donald Bren Hall Irvine, CA 92697-3425 UCI Homepage UCI Directory Faculty & Staff ICS Intranet Kay Family Foundation Lab Facilities News Events Map & Directions Employment Safety Procedures Privacy Policy Apply Contact Gift © UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences ➤