10270
www.ics.uci.edu/faculty/area/area_vision.php
computational vision research @ the bren school of information and computer sciences HOME ABOUT About the School Dean's Welcome Facts and Figures Donald Bren Hall Visit the Bren School Equity & Diversity Contact Us DEPARTMENTS Computer Science Informatics Statistics RESEARCH Research Areas Research Centers Research Highlights STUDENTS Graduate ▸ Prospective Students How to Apply Programs of Study Academic Year Plan Forms Policies Funding & Housing Computing Support Campus Resources Visit the Bren School Graduate Student Handbook Contact Undergraduate ▸ Contact Academic Advising Course Updates Academic Year Plan Petitions ICS Majors ICS Minors Policies: Academic Integrity Policies: Academic Standing Policies: Add, drop, & change options Policies: Coursework outside UCI Policies: Grade policy Policies: Laptop & computer use Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses Graduation ICS Student Life Upcoming Events Computing Support Scholarships & Fellowships Student Jobs & Internships PEOPLE Faculty Staff Graduate Students NEWS & EVENTS Newsroom Events Social Media Press Releases Annual Reports Student Blogs GET INVOLVED Make a Gift Alumni Leadership Council Corporate Partners Sponsor Projects Product Development Competition Bren school home / Faculty / Research areas Computational Vision research »Charless Fowlkes »Wayne B Hayes »Ramesh Jain »Aditi Majumder »Gopi Meenakshisundaram »Eric Mjolsness »Erik Sudderth Research in computer vision lies at the intersection of vision science, artificial intelligence, computer graphics, and image processing. The focus here at UCI includes both theory and applications. One focus is on the understanding of biological visual systems, including low, mid, and high-level processing. We examine fundamental issues in perception including include boundary detection, perceptual grouping, appearance and shape modeling, and object representation. We are ultimately interested in the computational mechanisms and principles that govern human visual perception. We are also interested in computer vision from a system perspective. Digital media content is widespread in today's society; digital cameras and camcorders are now everywhere. Medical and biological experimentation also produce immense quantities of visual data that cannot be manually processed. A major challenge that lies ahead is the creation of systems that process, search and manipulate this visual data. Applications include image search, video surveillance, and biological image analysis. For more information please visit the Computational Vision Lab. More faculty Research areas Research centers Research highlights Tweets by UCIbrenICS View Social Media Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences University of California, Irvine 6210 Donald Bren Hall Irvine, CA 92697-3425 UCI Homepage UCI Directory Faculty & Staff ICS Intranet Kay Family Foundation Lab Facilities News Events Map & Directions Employment Safety Procedures Privacy Policy Apply Contact Gift © UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences ➤