10530
www.ics.uci.edu/grad/admissions/Prospective_ApplicationProcess.php
graduate application process @ the bren school of information and computer sciences HOME ABOUT About the School Dean's Welcome Facts and Figures Donald Bren Hall Visit the Bren School Equity & Diversity Contact Us DEPARTMENTS Computer Science Informatics Statistics RESEARCH Research Areas Research Centers Research Highlights STUDENTS Graduate ▸ Prospective Students How to Apply Programs of Study Academic Year Plan Forms Policies Funding & Housing Computing Support Campus Resources Visit the Bren School Graduate Student Handbook Contact Undergraduate ▸ Contact Academic Advising Course Updates Academic Year Plan Petitions ICS Majors ICS Minors Policies: Academic Integrity Policies: Academic Standing Policies: Add, drop, & change options Policies: Coursework outside UCI Policies: Grade policy Policies: Laptop & computer use Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses Graduation ICS Student Life Upcoming Events Computing Support Scholarships & Fellowships Student Jobs & Internships PEOPLE Faculty Staff Graduate Students NEWS & EVENTS Newsroom Events Social Media Press Releases Annual Reports Student Blogs GET INVOLVED Make a Gift Alumni Leadership Council Corporate Partners Sponsor Projects Product Development Competition Bren school home / Graduate / Admissions Graduate Application Process Online applications for graduate admissions are accepted from September 5th to December 15th. All materials as outlined below should be submitted before the December 15th deadline. You can still apply to ICS if your undergraduate degree is not in the same area as the graduate degree in which you are interested. However, it is helpful if you have taken courses in computer science and math, and/or have some related work experience. ICS accepts applications for admission beginning in the Fall Quarter only. » Online Application Complete the online application. Pay particular attention to the following: Save your application ID and student ID numbers; they will be asked of you when filling out other documents. You must supply a valid e-mail address that you will maintain at least 8 months after you apply. If you are admitted, you will be notified via this e-mail address. Applications are processed after the application fee has been received. The application fee cannot be waived. You can apply for more than one program simultaneously, but you must fill out a separate application and pay a separate fee for each program. Please note that the ICS Student Affairs Office cannot give you your admissions decision through email or over the phone. If you have questions regarding your electronic application or your payment, contact UCI Graduate Division at (949) 824-4611 or gradadmissionquestions@uci.edu. Enter the appropriate codes for ICS. Note that you must choose either M.S. or Ph.D. as ICS does not have a M.S./Ph.D. program. Enter a specific area of interest. More information about research areas can be found here. Computer Science, Ph.D. Computer Science, M.S. Informatics, Ph.D. Informatics, M.S. Networked Systems, Ph.D. (Computer Science Department) Networked Systems, M.S. (Computer Science Department) Software Engineering, Ph.D. (Informatics Department) Software Engineering, M.S. (Informatics Department) Statistics, Ph.D. Statistics, M.S. Professional Master of Computer Science (Computer Science Department) – Please see website for admissions ﻿requirements. Deadline is December 15 Professional Master of Human-Computer Interaction and Design (Informatics Department) – Please see website for admissions requirements. Deadline is March 15, 2018 Professional Master of Embedded & Cyber-Physical Systems (Joint program between the School of Engineering and ICS) Professional Master of Software Engineering (Informatics Department) » GRE and TOEFL Scores Arrange to have your official test scores sent from the testing agency to UC Irvine. Photocopies or scans will not be accepted. GRE The General GRE is required of ALL applicants. For official GRE General test scores, use Institutional code: 4859 There is no minimum GRE score. GRE scores are good for five years, after which time the exam must be retaken. We cannot accept GMAT scores in lieu of GRE scores. TOEFL The TOEFL (Test of English as a Foreign Language) is required of international applicants. For official TOEFL test scores, use Institutional code: 4859 The minimum TOEFL score is 80. For more information, please see Graduate Division's English Proficiency site. UCI will only waive the TOEFL requirement for applicants who have completed ALL requirements for a B.S., M.S. or Ph.D. degree in the U.S. prior to submitting their application. » Letters of Recommendation Three letters of recommendation are required. Complete the Letter of Recommendation section on the online application. This will allow you to enter in your recommenders' names and e-mail addresses. An automated e-mail invitation will be sent to each of your recommenders. It is strongly recommended that you waive or decline to waive your rights of access to your letters of recommendation. After you have completed and submitted your application, you may continue to manage and monitor the status of their submission by logging into your online application and viewing the status page. You should request letters from people you have identified who can evaluate your academic and/or professional achievements, describe your strengths and weaknesses and comment on your character, integrity and motivation. » Personal Statement The Personal Statement (same as Statement of Purpose) should be submitted via the online application. » Official Transcripts For application review purposes only, scan and upload copies of transcripts for all institutions attended since high school. In the online application, you will be prompted to upload your scanned documents. Please upload both the front and back sides of the transcript. Uploaded transcripts should be recent and include the following: your name, dates of attendance, grades/marks received, credits and grading legend. UCI reserves the right to require official transcripts at any time during the admission process, and rescind any offer of admission made if discrepancies between uploaded and official transcript(s) are found. Official transcripts will be requested if and when you are admitted and decide to attend UCI. Do not send official transcripts until this time, unless you are requested to do so. » Checking Your Application Status Applicants may login to the online SLATE account to check for application materials received and their current application status. Ph.D. and M.S. admissions decisions are ongoing from approximately March through May. Acceptance and denial letters will be sent electronically. We cannot provide you with the final decision over the phone. More Graduate Contact Prospective students How to Apply Programs of study Academic year plan Forms Policies Funding & housing Computing support Campus resources Visit the Bren School Graduate Student Handbook Tweets by UCIbrenICS View Social Media Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences University of California, Irvine 6210 Donald Bren Hall Irvine, CA 92697-3425 UCI Homepage UCI Directory Faculty & Staff ICS Intranet Kay Family Foundation Lab Facilities News Events Map & Directions Employment Safety Procedures Privacy Policy Apply Contact Gift © UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences ➤