10532
www.ics.uci.edu/grad/admissions/index/dept
Prospective Graduate Students @ the bren school of information and computer sciences HOME ABOUT About the School Dean's Welcome Facts and Figures Donald Bren Hall Visit the Bren School Equity & Diversity Contact Us DEPARTMENTS Computer Science Informatics Statistics RESEARCH Research Areas Research Centers Research Highlights STUDENTS Graduate ▸ Prospective Students How to Apply Programs of Study Academic Year Plan Forms Policies Funding & Housing Computing Support Campus Resources Visit the Bren School Graduate Student Handbook Contact Undergraduate ▸ Contact Academic Advising Course Updates Academic Year Plan Petitions ICS Majors ICS Minors Policies: Academic Integrity Policies: Academic Standing Policies: Add, drop, & change options Policies: Coursework outside UCI Policies: Grade policy Policies: Laptop & computer use Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses Graduation ICS Student Life Upcoming Events Computing Support Scholarships & Fellowships Student Jobs & Internships PEOPLE Faculty Staff Graduate Students NEWS & EVENTS Newsroom Events Social Media Press Releases Annual Reports Student Blogs GET INVOLVED Make a Gift Alumni Leadership Council Corporate Partners Sponsor Projects Product Development Competition Bren school home / Graduate / Admissions / Prospective Graduate Students Your Success Starts at ICS Join more than 800 graduate students studying virtually every area within the fields of Computer Science, Informatics, Networked Systems, Software Engineering and Statistics, as well as many new interdisciplinary topics. With more than 100 faculty members spanning three departments—Computer Science, Informatics and Statistics—this is a very exciting time to be a part of the Donald Bren School. Almost all of our Ph.D. students receive financial aid in the form of teaching assistantships or research assistantships during their time at UC Irvine. Many of them also receive fellowships from the Bren School's corporate partners and private supporters. You can still apply to ICS if your undergraduate degree is not in the same area as the graduate degree in which you are interested. However, it is helpful if you have taken courses in computer science and math, and/or have some related work experience. A complete list of our graduate programs is below so you can explore which one is right for you. You can also visit the UCI Course Catalogue for more in-depth information about each ICS graduate program. Research Programs » Computer Science — Ph.D. l M.S. » Informatics — Ph.D. l M.S. » Networked Systems — Ph.D. l M.S. » Software Engineering — Ph.D. l M.S. » Statistics — Ph.D. l M.S. » Computational Science - Ph.D. Professional Programs » Master of Human-Computer Interaction and Design (MHCID) » Master of Computer Science (MCS) » Master of Embedded & Cyber-physical Systems (MECPS) (Joint program between the School of Engineering and ICS) » Master of Software Engineering (MSWE) * Compare the professional programs here. Apply Now For information on how to apply to one or multiple graduate programs, click here. More Graduate Contact Prospective students How to Apply Programs of study Academic year plan Forms Policies Funding & housing Computing support Campus resources Visit the Bren School Graduate Student Handbook Tweets by UCIbrenICS View Social Media Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences University of California, Irvine 6210 Donald Bren Hall Irvine, CA 92697-3425 UCI Homepage UCI Directory Faculty & Staff ICS Intranet Kay Family Foundation Lab Facilities News Events Map & Directions Employment Safety Procedures Privacy Policy Apply Contact Gift © UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences ➤