10549
www.ics.uci.edu/grad/funding
Graduate Funding & Housing - UCI's Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences HOME ABOUT About the School Dean's Welcome Facts and Figures Donald Bren Hall Visit the Bren School Equity & Diversity Contact Us DEPARTMENTS Computer Science Informatics Statistics RESEARCH Research Areas Research Centers Research Highlights STUDENTS Graduate ▸ Prospective Students How to Apply Programs of Study Academic Year Plan Forms Policies Funding & Housing Computing Support Campus Resources Visit the Bren School Graduate Student Handbook Contact Undergraduate ▸ Contact Academic Advising Course Updates Academic Year Plan Petitions ICS Majors ICS Minors Policies: Academic Integrity Policies: Academic Standing Policies: Add, drop, & change options Policies: Coursework outside UCI Policies: Grade policy Policies: Laptop & computer use Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses Graduation ICS Student Life Upcoming Events Computing Support Scholarships & Fellowships Student Jobs & Internships PEOPLE Faculty Staff Graduate Students NEWS & EVENTS Newsroom Events Social Media Press Releases Annual Reports Student Blogs GET INVOLVED Make a Gift Alumni Leadership Council Corporate Partners Sponsor Projects Product Development Competition Bren school home / Graduate / Funding Graduate Funding & Housing Fellowships for ICS Graduate Students Fellowship and award opportunities available to ICS Graduate Students are outlined in this PDF document. This is a combined list of those offered by Graduate Division and external sources. Please see the links provided in the document for more information on each fellowship or award. *Many fellowships have internal department deadlines 7-10 days prior to the official due date. Teaching Assistantships Students can receive funding through appointments as a Teaching Assistant (TA) or Reader. Information on responsibilities, requirements, and benefits can be found on the Graduate Division website here. Interested ICS graduate students must submit an application for each quarter they wish to search as a TA or Reader. The application requirement applies to ALL students, including those on a TA/Reader fellowship. Students are notified of their appointments via email as soon as they are assigned. Any questions about TA and Reader assignments should be directed to the Department Managers. Graduate Housing On-campus housing is not guaranteed. All students looking for on-campus housing options must apply in order to be considered. Continuing students may apply to the housing waiting list at any time during the year. Admitted students may apply for housing after they submit their Statement of Intent to Register (SIR), and must do so by May 1st. Continuing students can find more information on the Student Housing website. Information for new graduate students may be found here. Local off-campus housing information (Irvine) can be found at http://www.rental-living.com/. If you have transportation to campus, surrounding communities such as Costa Mesa, Santa Ana, and Tustin are conveniently located and generally more affordable than off-campus housing in Irvine. More Graduate Contact Prospective students How to Apply Programs of study Academic year plan Forms Policies Funding & housing Computing support Campus resources Visit the Bren School Graduate Student Handbook Tweets by UCIbrenICS View Social Media Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences University of California, Irvine 6210 Donald Bren Hall Irvine, CA 92697-3425 UCI Homepage UCI Directory Faculty & Staff ICS Intranet Kay Family Foundation Lab Facilities News Events Map & Directions Employment Safety Procedures Privacy Policy Apply Contact Gift © UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences ➤