10578
www.ics.uci.edu/grad/policies/GradPolicies_MSThesisOption.php
graduate student policies @ the bren school of information and computer sciences HOME ABOUT About the School Dean's Welcome Facts and Figures Donald Bren Hall Visit the Bren School Equity & Diversity Contact Us DEPARTMENTS Computer Science Informatics Statistics RESEARCH Research Areas Research Centers Research Highlights STUDENTS Graduate ▸ Prospective Students How to Apply Programs of Study Academic Year Plan Forms Policies Funding & Housing Computing Support Campus Resources Visit the Bren School Graduate Student Handbook Contact Undergraduate ▸ Contact Academic Advising Course Updates Academic Year Plan Petitions ICS Majors ICS Minors Policies: Academic Integrity Policies: Academic Standing Policies: Add, drop, & change options Policies: Coursework outside UCI Policies: Grade policy Policies: Laptop & computer use Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses Graduation ICS Student Life Upcoming Events Computing Support Scholarships & Fellowships Student Jobs & Internships PEOPLE Faculty Staff Graduate Students NEWS & EVENTS Newsroom Events Social Media Press Releases Annual Reports Student Blogs GET INVOLVED Make a Gift Alumni Leadership Council Corporate Partners Sponsor Projects Product Development Competition Bren school home / Graduate / policies Graduate Student Policies: M.S. Thesis Option Master’s Thesis Option The thesis option is available to M.S. students who do not plan to take the comprehensive exam and who are in good academic standing with the School (note this option not available to students in the Statistics program). Students pursuing this option must enroll in at least two quarters of Thesis Supervision (CS 298 or Inf 298), which will substitute for two required courses as specified under the concentration area or track of choice. A committee of three faculty members, the majority of whom must be from the student’s department, will guide the student and give final approval of the thesis. The committee consists of an advisor, who must be from the student’s department and who is willing to supervise the thesis project, and two other faculty members who are willing to serve on the committee as readers. An oral presentation of the thesis to the committee is required.M.S. Thesis Option Policy A thesis option is available to M.S. students who do not plan to take the comprehensive exam and who are in good academic standing with the School. Students pursuing this option must enroll in at least two quarters of Thesis Supervision (CS 298 or INF 298) which will substitute for two required courses as specified under the concentration area or specialization of choice (not available to students in the Statistics program). A committee of three faculty members will guide the student and give final approval of the thesis. The committee consists of an advisor (from the student's department/program), who is willing to supervise the thesis project, and two other faculty members (one of whom must be from the student's department/program), who are willing to serve on the committee as readers. An oral presentation of the thesis to the committee is required. More Graduate Contact Prospective students How to Apply Programs of study Academic year plan Forms Policies Funding & housing Computing support Campus resources Visit the Bren School Graduate Student Handbook Tweets by UCIbrenICS View Social Media Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences University of California, Irvine 6210 Donald Bren Hall Irvine, CA 92697-3425 UCI Homepage UCI Directory Faculty & Staff ICS Intranet Kay Family Foundation Lab Facilities News Events Map & Directions Employment Safety Procedures Privacy Policy Apply Contact Gift © UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences ➤