11111
www.ics.uci.edu/ugrad/QA_Graduation
graduation and beyond @ the bren school of information and computer sciences HOME ABOUT About the School Dean's Welcome Facts and Figures Donald Bren Hall Visit the Bren School Equity & Diversity Contact Us DEPARTMENTS Computer Science Informatics Statistics RESEARCH Research Areas Research Centers Research Highlights STUDENTS Graduate ▸ Prospective Students How to Apply Programs of Study Academic Year Plan Forms Policies Funding & Housing Computing Support Campus Resources Visit the Bren School Graduate Student Handbook Contact Undergraduate ▸ Contact Academic Advising Course Updates Academic Year Plan Petitions ICS Majors ICS Minors Policies: Academic Integrity Policies: Academic Standing Policies: Add, drop, & change options Policies: Coursework outside UCI Policies: Grade policy Policies: Laptop & computer use Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses Graduation ICS Student Life Upcoming Events Computing Support Scholarships & Fellowships Student Jobs & Internships PEOPLE Faculty Staff Graduate Students NEWS & EVENTS Newsroom Events Social Media Press Releases Annual Reports Student Blogs GET INVOLVED Make a Gift Alumni Leadership Council Corporate Partners Sponsor Projects Product Development Competition Bren school home / Undergraduate Graduation and Beyond Congratulations to our 2017-18 Honors and Awards recipients! » Graduation Requirements You must meet the following requirements: University: completion of all University Requirements as outlined in the General Catalogue. School and Major: completion of all courses required for your School and Major Units: credit for a minimum of 180 quarter units. GPA: 2.0 GPA cumulative 2.0 GPA in your major 2.0 GPA in the upper-division courses in your major. Senior Residency: 36 of the final 45 units completed for the bachelor’s degree must be earned in residence at the UCI campus (exceptions include courses taken through the Education Abroad Program, the UCDC Academic Internship Program, or the UC Center Sacramento Scholar Intern Program). If you have any questions about requirements or your degree audit, please meet with a peer advisor or an academic counselor as soon as possible. You should be getting graduation checks at least twice a year as a senior. Please be aware, however, that students are ultimately responsible for making sure they are on track and indeed meet all graduate requirements. » Applying for Graduation Graduation is not automatic! You must submit the online Application for Graduation, which is found on Student Access. Review your degree audit carefully to make sure you will meet all University, Breadth, School and Major requirements. If there is a discrepancy or error, meet with a peer advisor immediately. Do not send an e-mail. When you fill out the application, be sure to indicate minors, concentrations and specializations that you may be completing. Please also ensure that your diploma notification address and telephone number are correct. Once the online Application has been submitted, only a Bren School academic counselor may make changes to it. ALL courses must be completed by the end of the quarter in which you intend/apply to graduate. NOTE: If you submit an application for graduation past the deadline listed for the quarter above, it will be moved to the following quarter. The graduation application deadlines for ICS are as follows: FALL GRADUATION Friday of Week 8 of Summer Session 10 WINTER GRADUATION Friday of Week 8 of Fall quarter SPRING GRADUATION Friday of Week 8 of Winter quarter SUMMER GRADUATION Friday of Week 8 of Spring quarter »Commencement and Honors Commencement: Visit the official website of the UCI Commencement Office for full information Latin Honors: No more than 16% of seniors graduating during an academic year (summer to spring) will receive Latin honors: 2 percent summa cum laude 4 percent magna cum laude 10 percent cum laude Final selection is based on the School’s spring quarter rank-ordered grade point averages. ICS conducts a holistic review process for latin honors. The following criteria are considered and are not limited to: UC GPA Major GPA Units in residence Number of units taken for P/NP option Academic excellence Academic integrity infractions Must file a graduation application by the Friday of Week 8 of the quarter before you intend to graduate. For example, if you intend to graduate in Spring, you must submit a graduation application by Week 8 of Winter quarter prior to Spring. Must be able to verify completion of all course work by the end of spring of the academic year you intend to graduate Must be officially declared as a Bren School of ICS major Seventy-two (72) quarter units in residence at a UC campus must be completed by the end of winter quarter of the academic year you intend to graduate Any corrections to your academic record must be processed by the Registrar's Office by March of the intended graduation year. Note: latin honors designations are finalized after Spring grades are determined. Students who are eligible for latin honors based on Winter grades may see their designation go up, down, or off the latin honors scale. Summer graduates participating in the June commencement ceremony prior to their date of graduation are not eligible for honors for that academic year; they will instead be considered for the following academic year. » Transcript and Diploma Degrees are posted to official transcripts approximately six to seven weeks after the end of the quarter in which they are conferred. Diplomas will be available approximately four months after the quarter in which the degree was awarded. The Registrar’s Office will notify you by mail when your diploma is available. More information is available on the Registrar's website. Upon graduation, academic records may not be changed. It is your responsibility to check the accuracy of your academic record, and to resolve all I and NR grades, before you graduate. And After Graduation... More Undergraduate Contact Academic advising Course updates Academic year plan ICS majors Double major 2nd baccalaureate ICS minors Petitions Policies Academic honesty Academic standing Add, drop, & change options Change of Major Concurrent Enrollment Coursework outside UCI CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Grade policy ICS Credit by Exam Laptop & computer use Withdrawal/Readmission Graduation ICS student life Upcoming events Computing support Title IX Resources Newly Admitted to ICS Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences University of California, Irvine 6210 Donald Bren Hall Irvine, CA 92697-3425 UCI Homepage UCI Directory Faculty & Staff ICS Intranet Kay Family Foundation Lab Facilities News Events Map & Directions Employment Safety Procedures Privacy Policy Apply Contact Gift © UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences ➤