11110
www.ics.uci.edu/ugrad/QA_After_Graduation.php
beyond graduation @ the bren school of information and computer sciences HOME ABOUT About the School Dean's Welcome Facts and Figures Donald Bren Hall Visit the Bren School Equity & Diversity Contact Us DEPARTMENTS Computer Science Informatics Statistics RESEARCH Research Areas Research Centers Research Highlights STUDENTS Graduate ▸ Prospective Students How to Apply Programs of Study Academic Year Plan Forms Policies Funding & Housing Computing Support Campus Resources Visit the Bren School Graduate Student Handbook Contact Undergraduate ▸ Contact Academic Advising Course Updates Academic Year Plan Petitions ICS Majors ICS Minors Policies: Academic Integrity Policies: Academic Standing Policies: Add, drop, & change options Policies: Coursework outside UCI Policies: Grade policy Policies: Laptop & computer use Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses Graduation ICS Student Life Upcoming Events Computing Support Scholarships & Fellowships Student Jobs & Internships PEOPLE Faculty Staff Graduate Students NEWS & EVENTS Newsroom Events Social Media Press Releases Annual Reports Student Blogs GET INVOLVED Make a Gift Alumni Leadership Council Corporate Partners Sponsor Projects Product Development Competition Bren school home / Undergraduate Beyond Graduation » If You're Considering Graduate School Speak with academic counselors, faculty mentors, and/or current graduate students about your long term academic and career goals. Consider these questions: Why do you want to go to pursue an advanced degree? Do you have the financial resources? Do you want to apply for financial aid? Do you have the qualities necessary to succeed in graduate school? Is an advanced degree necessary to achieve your career goals? If you are certain graduate school is your next step: Research universities and graduate programs to find the ones most suited to your goals and interests. The UCI Career Center offers a range of services for those considering graduate school, including: resource materials for graduate school research tips for preparation and application an on-line Letter of Recommendation service Once you have narrowed down your choices, be sure to contact those programs directly for information. Every school is different! If possible, try to speak with staff, faculty, and even current students in those programs to learn more about what graduate life is like there. You may make an appointment to speak with an ICS graduate counselor for additional advice and guidance. Call 949-824-5156 to set up an appointment. Watch this helpful video where ICS faculty talk about the grad school application process, and ICS grad students share their experiences. Also, take a look at the US Bureau of Labor Statistics for information about earnings and employment rates. » Applying for Jobs and Internships The UCI Career Center offers a range of services for those looking for jobs, including: tips building a strong resume and cover letter preparing for interviews job search strategies Also check out UCIrvine Tech Jobs for current opportunities. More Undergraduate Contact Academic advising Course updates Academic year plan ICS majors Double major 2nd baccalaureate ICS minors Petitions Policies Academic honesty Academic standing Add, drop, & change options Change of Major Concurrent Enrollment Coursework outside UCI CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Grade policy ICS Credit by Exam Laptop & computer use Withdrawal/Readmission Graduation ICS student life Upcoming events Computing support Title IX Resources Newly Admitted to ICS Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences University of California, Irvine 6210 Donald Bren Hall Irvine, CA 92697-3425 UCI Homepage UCI Directory Faculty & Staff ICS Intranet Kay Family Foundation Lab Facilities News Events Map & Directions Employment Safety Procedures Privacy Policy Apply Contact Gift © UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences ➤