11124
www.ics.uci.edu/ugrad/degrees/Double_Majors.php
undergraduate double majors @ the bren school of information and computer sciences HOME ABOUT About the School Dean's Welcome Facts and Figures Donald Bren Hall Visit the Bren School Equity & Diversity Contact Us DEPARTMENTS Computer Science Informatics Statistics RESEARCH Research Areas Research Centers Research Highlights STUDENTS Graduate ▸ Prospective Students How to Apply Programs of Study Academic Year Plan Forms Policies Funding & Housing Computing Support Campus Resources Visit the Bren School Graduate Student Handbook Contact Undergraduate ▸ Contact Academic Advising Course Updates Academic Year Plan Petitions ICS Majors ICS Minors Policies: Academic Integrity Policies: Academic Standing Policies: Add, drop, & change options Policies: Coursework outside UCI Policies: Grade policy Policies: Laptop & computer use Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses Graduation ICS Student Life Upcoming Events Computing Support Scholarships & Fellowships Student Jobs & Internships PEOPLE Faculty Staff Graduate Students NEWS & EVENTS Newsroom Events Social Media Press Releases Annual Reports Student Blogs GET INVOLVED Make a Gift Alumni Leadership Council Corporate Partners Sponsor Projects Product Development Competition Bren school home / Undergraduate / Degrees Double Majoring » Steps for adding another major REVIEW the degree requirements for the major you want to add. DRAFT a four- or five-year study plan of the courses you will need to complete for both degrees. Expect this plan to evolve as class offerings will change from year to year! Even with changes, you will still have a better idea of what classes you will be taking than if you had just taken them without any forethought. Note that a study plan is mandatory if you are: over 90 units (not including units acquired outside of UCI), a transfer student, OR entering your third quarter. MEET with a Peer Academic Advisor or academic counselor to discuss how to most efficiently meet the additional degree requirements— Don't forget to bring your study plan! If you are going to double major in two different Schools, it is advised you meet with a counselor in each School. COMPLETE the Change of Major criteria for the major you want to add SUBMIT the application through Student Access (under Applications > Change of Major) Please note: A 3.0 cumulative gpa is required to double major. Some ICS major combinations are not allowed; check the Double Major Restrictions Chart to see what degree programs are eligible for double majoring. ICS students may not add a double major during his or her senior year at UCI. Students will be directed to consider a Second Baccalaureate program in Computer Science, CSE, Informatics or Software Engineering. Some majors (e.g., Biology) require that you graduate within four years regardless of single or double majors. If you are hoping to double major with degrees from another School and ICS, you may wish to do an ICS Second Baccalaureate instead. More Undergraduate Contact Academic advising Course updates Academic year plan ICS majors Double major 2nd baccalaureate ICS minors Petitions Policies Academic honesty Academic standing Add, drop, & change options Change of Major Concurrent Enrollment Coursework outside UCI CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Grade policy ICS Credit by Exam Laptop & computer use Withdrawal/Readmission Graduation ICS student life Upcoming events Computing support Title IX Resources Newly Admitted to ICS Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences University of California, Irvine 6210 Donald Bren Hall Irvine, CA 92697-3425 UCI Homepage UCI Directory Faculty & Staff ICS Intranet Kay Family Foundation Lab Facilities News Events Map & Directions Employment Safety Procedures Privacy Policy Apply Contact Gift © UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences ➤