11126
www.ics.uci.edu/ugrad/degrees/Second_BA.php
ics second baccalaureate @ the bren school of information and computer sciences HOME ABOUT About the School Dean's Welcome Facts and Figures Donald Bren Hall Visit the Bren School Equity & Diversity Contact Us DEPARTMENTS Computer Science Informatics Statistics RESEARCH Research Areas Research Centers Research Highlights STUDENTS Graduate ▸ Prospective Students How to Apply Programs of Study Academic Year Plan Forms Policies Funding & Housing Computing Support Campus Resources Visit the Bren School Graduate Student Handbook Contact Undergraduate ▸ Contact Academic Advising Course Updates Academic Year Plan Petitions ICS Majors ICS Minors Policies: Academic Integrity Policies: Academic Standing Policies: Add, drop, & change options Policies: Coursework outside UCI Policies: Grade policy Policies: Laptop & computer use Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses Graduation ICS Student Life Upcoming Events Computing Support Scholarships & Fellowships Student Jobs & Internships PEOPLE Faculty Staff Graduate Students NEWS & EVENTS Newsroom Events Social Media Press Releases Annual Reports Student Blogs GET INVOLVED Make a Gift Alumni Leadership Council Corporate Partners Sponsor Projects Product Development Competition Bren school home / Undergraduate / Degrees Second Baccalaureate Degrees For students whose first degree was from another institution other than UC Irvine: Applications will be accepted for the Fall quarter only. Applications must be submitted during the filing period in order to be considered for Fall admission. Detailed information on the application procedure can be found on the Office of Admissions and Relations with Schools website. For students whose first degree was completed at UC Irvine: Applications will be accepted for any quarter. Former UC Irvine students must meet with an academic counselor to discuss admission for the second baccalaureate. Former UCI students will be admitted via the campus' readmission policy. Students must meet with an ICS academic counselor to process the readmission application. All interested individuals must adhere to the readmission deadlines that are set by the Registrar's Office. » ICS Second Baccalaureate Degrees Data Science** Informatics Software Engineering **Admission for the second baccalaureate degree in Data Science is open for Fall 2017 admission for UCI alumni. Admission for all others will be open for Fall 2018 admission. Note: Second baccalaureate students may not change majors once admitted into a program. » Tips for Second Baccalaureate Applicants Applications cannot be considered or activated until all required coursework is completed and relevant transcripts are received. Required coursework may be completed at UCI or with equivalent courses taken at an accredited institution. Courses taken at a four-year or two-year institution can be examined by UC Irvine faculty through a petition process to determine equivalency. In order to determine equivalency, a course syllabus/outline with a course description, weekly topics, and a textbook (if necessary) must be submitted to syllabi@ics.uci.edu Courses may be taken at UCI through ACCESS UCI via University Extension. For more information about ACCESS and the process, contact an ICS academic counselor. Courses taken at universities other than local community colleges should be evaluated for equivalency before submitting your application to ensure you have completed all relevant coursework. Articulation agreements between California community colleges and the Bren School of ICS can be found at www.assist.org. Grade point averages as stated in the policy are required. If you complete several math and computer science courses and find you are not earning high enough grades, you may need to reconsider your decision to apply for a second baccalaureate degree in ICS. You may decide not to finish the required course work if you will not be able to get into ICS. The academic counselors in ICS are available to discuss your chances of being admitted to the program and to help you to identify other options. More Undergraduate Contact Academic advising Course updates Academic year plan ICS majors Double major 2nd baccalaureate ICS minors Petitions Policies Academic honesty Academic standing Add, drop, & change options Change of Major Concurrent Enrollment Coursework outside UCI CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Grade policy ICS Credit by Exam Laptop & computer use Withdrawal/Readmission Graduation ICS student life Upcoming events Computing support Title IX Resources Newly Admitted to ICS Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences University of California, Irvine 6210 Donald Bren Hall Irvine, CA 92697-3425 UCI Homepage UCI Directory Faculty & Staff ICS Intranet Kay Family Foundation Lab Facilities News Events Map & Directions Employment Safety Procedures Privacy Policy Apply Contact Gift © UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences ➤