11136
www.ics.uci.edu/ugrad/degrees/degree_ics.php
undergraduate degree in information and computer science @ the bren school of information and computer sciences HOME ABOUT About the School Dean's Welcome Facts and Figures Donald Bren Hall Visit the Bren School Equity & Diversity Contact Us DEPARTMENTS Computer Science Informatics Statistics RESEARCH Research Areas Research Centers Research Highlights STUDENTS Graduate ▸ Prospective Students How to Apply Programs of Study Academic Year Plan Forms Policies Funding & Housing Computing Support Campus Resources Visit the Bren School Graduate Student Handbook Contact Undergraduate ▸ Contact Academic Advising Course Updates Academic Year Plan Petitions ICS Majors ICS Minors Policies: Academic Integrity Policies: Academic Standing Policies: Add, drop, & change options Policies: Coursework outside UCI Policies: Grade policy Policies: Laptop & computer use Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses Graduation ICS Student Life Upcoming Events Computing Support Scholarships & Fellowships Student Jobs & Internships PEOPLE Faculty Staff Graduate Students NEWS & EVENTS Newsroom Events Social Media Press Releases Annual Reports Student Blogs GET INVOLVED Make a Gift Alumni Leadership Council Corporate Partners Sponsor Projects Product Development Competition Bren school home / Undergraduate / Degrees Undergraduate degree in Information and Computer Science DEGREES AVAILABLE: Major and Minor The overall field of information and computer science spans a vast spectrum of topics. The degree in Information and Computer Science is an individually designed degree. Students must submit a proposal for a four-year plan of study along with a rationale for why the proposed plan is a well-motivated set of courses that does not fit into any of the existing ICS majors. Students submitting proposals are strongly encouraged to follow the lower-division requirements for one of the Bren School majors (or provide a rationale for why this is not appropriate) and should include at least 48 units of upper-division ICS, Computer Science, Informatics, or Statistics courses. Proposals must be approved by the ICS Associate Dean for Student Affairs. › Is Information and Computer Science for me? › What do I take? › What can I do with this degree? › Special Programs and Learning Opportunities › Still not sure? Is Information and Computer Science for me? The Information and Computer Science major is intended for highly motivated students who are currently enrolled at UCI, who find that their academic and career interests are not well served by any of the existing ICS majors, and would be better served by a uniquely designed course of study. ↑ Back to top What do I take? ↑ Back to top What can I do with this degree? Graduates of the Information and Computer Science major pursue a broad variety of careers. Since students have maximum flexibility in selecting their courses, they may choose to take any set of courses that best aligns with their career goals. Upon completing their degree our students have been hired at Pixar, IBM, Yahoo, NASA, Microsoft, Google, Deloitte, Unisys, Accenture, Merrill Lynch, Blizzard, Broadcom, and many other world-renowned organizations. Many students also go on to graduate school, continuing their studies, conducting research, and earning graduate degrees in computer engineering, computer science, information science, management or law. ↑Back to top Special Programs and Learning Opportunities There are several ways to add depth, scope, and experiential learning to your academic program of study. An academic counselor will help you determine the most efficient way to add another major, minor, or concentration to your academic plan, and will refer you to other campus programs and resources that support your interests and future goals. » CONCENTRATIONS: Engineering and Computer Science in the Global Context All Bren School majors in good standing may propose an academic plan that demonstrates the ability to complete the concentration and other requirements for graduation in a reasonable timeframe. The globalization of the marketplace for information technology services and products makes it likely that Bren ICS graduates will work in multicultural settings or be employed by companies with extensive international operations, or customer bases. The goal of the concentration is to help students develop and integrate knowledge of the history, language and culture of a country or geographic region outside the United States, through coursework both at UCI and an international host campus, followed by a technology related internship in the host country. Application: Each student's proposed program of study, specifying coursework and a guided internship experience in a region outside the U.S., must be approved in advance by the Bren School of ICS Associate Dean for Student Affairs. It is expected that each student's proposal will reflect a high degree of planning that includes the guidance of academic counselors and those at the UCI Center for International Education regarding course selection, as well as considerations related to internship opportunities, housing and financial aid. The academic counselors and the Associate Dean will be available to assist qualified students with the development of a satisfactory academic plan, as needed. Requirements: A minimum of eight courses at UCI or at the international campus with an emphasis on the culture, language (if applicable and necessary), history, literature of the country that corresponds to the international portion of the program, international law, international labor policy, global issues, global institutions, global conflict and negotiation and global economics; A one or two semester sequence of technical courses related to the major and, possibly, cultural, history, and literature courses taken at an international university; A two month or longer technical internship experience in the same country as the international educational experience. » MINORS Students inside and outside of the Bren School of ICS may want to pursue a minor, a coordinated set of courses which together take a student well beyond the introductory level in an academic field, subject, and/or discipline. Note: Some minor requirements may be fulfilled by the student’s major requirements. Some major/minor combinations are not allowed. Biomedical Computing (10 courses) Digital Information Systems (7 courses) Informatics (8 courses) Information and Computer Science (7 courses) Statistics (7 courses) » OPPORTUNITIES FOR HONORS-LEVEL STUDY Students who are majoring in Biomedical Computing, Business Information Management, Computer Science, Computer Science and Engineering, and Information and Computer Science, and ICS Undeclared Pre-Majors are invited to apply for admission to the Bren School of ICS's introductory honors sequence (ICS H21/H22/H23). These courses provide a uniquely challenging and intimate learning environment in which conventional course material is explored in greater depth. A student must meet at least one of the following criteria to be eligible to enroll in ICS H21: Minimum 620 on each of 2 of 3 sections of the SAT; or Member of the UCI Campuswide Honors Program; or Verification of score of 3 or higher on AP Computer Science A exam; or Eligible students will be provided an authorization code (required) for course enrollment at the time of their summer orientation/registration session. » BREN SCHOOL OF ICS HONORS PROGRAM Allows juniors and seniors majoring in Computer Science, Computer Science and Engineering, Informatics, or Information and Computer Science to pursue advanced work in one of many research areas. Students admitted to the program participate in an honors seminar, conduct independent research under the guidance of a faculty member, and write a research paper. More information about eligibility criteria and benefits of successful completion of the honors program is available at the Honors program web site. » INDEPENDENT RESEARCH OPPORTUNITIES The School encourages all majors to take advantage of this valuable experience, and faculty advertise many research opportunities every year. Students are also encouraged to participate in the campus Undergraduate Research Opportunities Program (UROP), which offers guidance and grant funding for student-proposed independent research, and sponsors programs which provide summer stipends for students working on faculty-guided research. » CAMPUSWIDE HONORS PROGRAM Available to selected high-achieving students from all academic majors from their freshman through senior years. For more information see the CHP web site. » EDUCATION ABROAD PROGRAM Upper-division students have the opportunity to experience different cultures while making progress toward degree objectives through the Education Abroad Program (EAP). EAP is an overseas study program which operates in cooperation with host universities and colleges throughout the world. » OTHER PROGRAMS OF INTEREST UCI SAGE (Student Achievement Guided by Experience) Scholars Program UCI California Teach Initiative UCI Washington Academic Internship Program UC/DC Internship Program UCI Administrative Intern Program ↑Back to top Still not sure? ↑Back to top More Undergraduate Contact Academic advising Course updates Academic year plan ICS majors Double major 2nd baccalaureate ICS minors Petitions Policies Academic honesty Academic standing Add, drop, & change options Change of Major Concurrent Enrollment Coursework outside UCI CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Grade policy ICS Credit by Exam Laptop & computer use Withdrawal/Readmission Graduation ICS student life Upcoming events Computing support Title IX Resources Newly Admitted to ICS Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences University of California, Irvine 6210 Donald Bren Hall Irvine, CA 92697-3425 UCI Homepage UCI Directory Faculty & Staff ICS Intranet Kay Family Foundation Lab Facilities News Events Map & Directions Employment Safety Procedures Privacy Policy Apply Contact Gift © UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences ➤