11140
www.ics.uci.edu/ugrad/degrees/degree_stats.php
undergraduate minor in statistics @ the bren school of information and computer sciences HOME ABOUT About the School Dean's Welcome Facts and Figures Donald Bren Hall Visit the Bren School Equity & Diversity Contact Us DEPARTMENTS Computer Science Informatics Statistics RESEARCH Research Areas Research Centers Research Highlights STUDENTS Graduate ▸ Prospective Students How to Apply Programs of Study Academic Year Plan Forms Policies Funding & Housing Computing Support Campus Resources Visit the Bren School Graduate Student Handbook Contact Undergraduate ▸ Contact Academic Advising Course Updates Academic Year Plan Petitions ICS Majors ICS Minors Policies: Academic Integrity Policies: Academic Standing Policies: Add, drop, & change options Policies: Coursework outside UCI Policies: Grade policy Policies: Laptop & computer use Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses Graduation ICS Student Life Upcoming Events Computing Support Scholarships & Fellowships Student Jobs & Internships PEOPLE Faculty Staff Graduate Students NEWS & EVENTS Newsroom Events Social Media Press Releases Annual Reports Student Blogs GET INVOLVED Make a Gift Alumni Leadership Council Corporate Partners Sponsor Projects Product Development Competition Bren school home / Undergraduate / Degrees Undergraduate minor in Statistics DEGREES AVAILABLE: Minor The Department of Statistics offers lower-division undergraduate courses designed to introduce students to the field of statistics (Statistics 7, 8, 67) and upper-division undergraduate courses on the theoretical foundations of probability and statistics (Statistics 120A-B-C, 121) and statistical methodology (Statistics 110-111-112). The Department is in the process of planning an undergraduate degree program in Statistics. In the interim, students interested in focusing on statistics are encouraged to consider a minor in Statistics along with a major in a field of interest. › Is the Statistics minor for me? › What do I take? › What can I do with this minor? Is the Statistics minor for me? Statistics is the field associated with the collection, analysis, and interpretation of data. Statistical theory and methods are relevant in a wide range of fields in the social, physical, and biological sciences, as well as in a range of practical areas like public policy, education, engineering and medicine. The minor in Statistics is designed to provide students with exposure to both statistical theory and practice. The minor requires a total of seven courses. These include a mathematics course, five core statistics courses, and an elective that may be taken from among several departments. Some of the courses used to complete the minor may include prerequisites that may or may not be part of a student's course requirements for their major. Because of this the minor is somewhat intensive, but it is a useful complement to a variety of undergraduate fields for mathematically inclined students. The minor, supplemented with a few additional courses (mathematics and computing), would provide sufficient background for graduate study in statistics. Students considering a minor in Statistics should meet with the Director of Undergraduate Studies in Statistics as early as possible to plan their course work. NOTE: Students may not receive both a minor in Statistics and a specialization in Statistics within the Mathematics major. ↑ Back to top What do I take? See the General Catalogue for a full listing of the Statistics minor requirements. ↑ Back to top What can I do with this minor? The Statistics minor will add a statistical perspective to a student's major field of study. The statistical perspective emphasizes the important role that uncertainty and variation play in understanding the world around us. A student's enhanced quantitative reasoning skills will be useful in any future career path -- this includes study towards a professional degree (e.g., law or medicine), graduate study in a field of interest, or a position in industry or government. Students who complete the minor requirements will be able to: recognize the important role of uncertainty and variability in empirical studies of real world phenomenon employ basic statistical methods to analyze and explore data understand the theoretical underpinnings of basic statistical methods ↑Back to top More Undergraduate Contact Academic advising Course updates Academic year plan ICS majors Double major 2nd baccalaureate ICS minors Petitions Policies Academic honesty Academic standing Add, drop, & change options Change of Major Concurrent Enrollment Coursework outside UCI CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Grade policy ICS Credit by Exam Laptop & computer use Withdrawal/Readmission Graduation ICS student life Upcoming events Computing support Title IX Resources Newly Admitted to ICS Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences University of California, Irvine 6210 Donald Bren Hall Irvine, CA 92697-3425 UCI Homepage UCI Directory Faculty & Staff ICS Intranet Kay Family Foundation Lab Facilities News Events Map & Directions Employment Safety Procedures Privacy Policy Apply Contact Gift © UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences ➤