11148
www.ics.uci.edu/ugrad/honors/honors_program.php
honors program @ the bren school of information and computer sciences ABOUT About the School Dean's Welcome Facts and Figures Donald Bren Hall Visit the Bren School Equity & Diversity Contact Us DEPARTMENTS Computer Science Informatics Statistics RESEARCH Research Areas Research Centers Research Highlights STUDENTS Graduate ▸ Prospective Students How to Apply Programs of Study Academic Year Plan Forms Policies Funding & Housing Computing Support Campus Resources Visit the Bren School Graduate Student Handbook Contact Undergraduate ▸ Contact Academic Advising Course Updates Academic Year Plan Petitions ICS Majors ICS Minors Policies: Academic Integrity Policies: Academic Standing Policies: Add, drop, & change options Policies: Coursework outside UCI Policies: Grade policy Policies: Laptop & computer use Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses Graduation ICS Student Life Upcoming Events Computing Support Scholarships & Fellowships Student Jobs & Internships PEOPLE Faculty Staff Graduate Students NEWS & EVENTS Newsroom Events Press Releases Annual Reports Student Blogs GET INVOLVED Make a Gift Alumni Leadership Council Corporate Partners Sponsor Projects Product Development Competition Bren school home / Undergraduate / ICS Honors Program Honors program The application period for the 2009-10 Honors Program ends on Monday June, 1st. Please view the bulleted list below for necessary documents and forms. Please be sure you have reviewed the program details and eligibility requirements listed below before applying. » Honors Program Application » Research Planning Form » Final Project Form (PDF, 12kb) The Honors Program in the Bren School provides an opportunity for selected students in any of the School's majors to carry out a research project under the direction of a faculty member in the School. Admission to the program is based on a formal application. In the following, "Group 1 Courses" and "Group 2 Courses" are defined as shown in the table below: Major Group 1 Courses Group 2 Courses CS, ICS ICS 21,22,23,51,52 Math 6D, or ICS 6D Math 6G, or Math 3A CSE CSE 21,22,23,25,31 Math 6D, or ICS 6D Math 6G, or Math 3A Informatics Inf 41,42,43,44 Inf 111,121 and 131 The following conditions must be satisfied by all applicants: » The student must have completed the Group 1 Courses and the Group 2 Courses by the end of the quarter in which the application is made. » The student must have the following grade point averages: » An overall grade point average of at least 3.2 » A grade point average of at least 3.5 in the Group 1 Courses » A grade point average of at least 3.5 in the Group 2 Courses Students who began as freshman at UCI must apply in the Spring of their sophomore or junior years. The applications should be submitted by June 2nd even by students who are completing the course requirements that quarter. Students who transfered to UCI may use transferred units to meet the conditions above. They also must have (a) completed a minimum of three courses in their major at UCI, (b) a 3.2 cumulative UCI grade point average, and (c) a 3.5 grade point average in their major. Transfer students should apply no later than the end of their third quarter at UCI. Other applications with special circumstances will be considered on a case-by-case basis, and exceptions may be made for sound reasons. In selecting students for the Honors Program, the School also considers evidence of ability and interest in research. Students admitted to the program participate in the Bren School Honors Seminar (ICS H197), which provides an introduction to research areas in the School. They then affiliate with a Bren School faculty advisor who agrees to supervise a minimum of two quarters of independent research (ICS H198). To ensure that students in the Honors Program are not taking excessive units, the following special allowances are made for ICS, CS, and CSE majors: » Students majoring in ICS or CS can count completion of two H198s as one project course. » Students majoring in CSE can count CSE 181ABC as one of the ICS H198s required for the Honors Program. Upon completion of the independent research, the honors student prepares a final written report. If this is certified to be of honors quality by the student's faculty advisor and the Honors Program advisor, the student is considered to have successfully completed the Honors Program and this is noted on his/her transcript. For additional information or if you have any questions regarding the Honors Program or application please contact the Student Affairs Office at (949) 824-5156 More Undergraduate Contact Academic advising Course updates Academic year plan ICS majors Double major 2nd baccalaureate ICS minors Petitions Policies Academic honesty Academic standing Add, drop, & change options Change of Major Concurrent Enrollment Coursework outside UCI CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Grade policy ICS Credit by Exam Laptop & computer use Withdrawal/Readmission Graduation ICS student life Upcoming events Computing support Title IX Resources Newly Admitted to ICS Quick Links - select a page - Computing support CS Seminar Series Employment Facilities Find faculty and staff Giving to the Bren School Graduate degrees Kay Family Foundation Lab Project ICS Prospective undergraduates Safety procedures Undergraduate degrees Copyright Inquiries | UCI Directory | Intranet