11142
www.ics.uci.edu/ugrad/financial
paying for school @ the bren school of information and computer sciences HOME ABOUT About the School Dean's Welcome Facts and Figures Donald Bren Hall Visit the Bren School Equity & Diversity Contact Us DEPARTMENTS Computer Science Informatics Statistics RESEARCH Research Areas Research Centers Research Highlights STUDENTS Graduate ▸ Prospective Students How to Apply Programs of Study Academic Year Plan Forms Policies Funding & Housing Computing Support Campus Resources Visit the Bren School Graduate Student Handbook Contact Undergraduate ▸ Contact Academic Advising Course Updates Academic Year Plan Petitions ICS Majors ICS Minors Policies: Academic Integrity Policies: Academic Standing Policies: Add, drop, & change options Policies: Coursework outside UCI Policies: Grade policy Policies: Laptop & computer use Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses Graduation ICS Student Life Upcoming Events Computing Support Scholarships & Fellowships Student Jobs & Internships PEOPLE Faculty Staff Graduate Students NEWS & EVENTS Newsroom Events Social Media Press Releases Annual Reports Student Blogs GET INVOLVED Make a Gift Alumni Leadership Council Corporate Partners Sponsor Projects Product Development Competition Bren school home / Undergraduate / Paying for school Paying for school We recognize that UCI is a great place — we also know that school tuition can be rather expensive. The UC Irvine Financial Aid and Scholarships office provides an online financial aid estimator with a personalized estimate of the cost of attendance and the estimated financial you may be eligible to receive. The Financial Aid and Scholarships office also provides an estimated breakdown of tuition and costs for attending UC Irvine. To help you and your family, we offer a wide variety of financial aid options, including grants, loans, scholarships, paid research positions and student employment. Please explore your options below: Bren School Scholarships The school offers more than $10,000 through competitive scholarships. The application period for these awards usually begins in the spring quarter and are made possible through the generous support of our community and industry friends. Hispanic College Fund Scholars Program Provides a one-year partial tutiton scholarship of up to one-half a student's tutiton and fees, not to exceed $10,000 per academic year. Student must be a U.S. citizen. U. S. citizens from underrepresented groups (Women, African American, Hispanic American, Native American, and persons with disabilities) are encouraged to apply. Must be pursuing a degree in a physical science, technology, engineering or mathematics. more » ics.jobs An employment job board provided by the Bren School to its students and alumni to assist them in their search for part-time, fulltime and internship positions within local technology companies. more » UCI Financial Aid Office Provides students and their families with the financial resources necessary to assure access to their academic goals. Includes a database of nationwide scholarships and grants. more » SAGE Scholars Program Through SAGE, companies offer paid multi-year internships to talented and highly motivated UCI students related to their field of study. Through these internships, business sponsors provide invaluable real-world business experience and training to students, as well as strong mentoring. more » UC LEADS UC Irvine's UC LEADS (University of California Leadership Excellence through Advanced Degrees) program offers sophomore students an opportunity to begin their research training at the very beginning of their junior year. UC LEADS is designed to identify educationally or economically disadvantaged undergraduates pursuing courses of study in the sciences, engineering, and mathematics. more » SURF-IT The Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowship in Information Technology (SURF-IT) through Calit2 at UCI, provides a unique 10-week paid summer research opportunity for UCI undergraduates to become immersed in IT-related research and applications. more » SURF The Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowship Program (SURF) is a unique offering for undergraduate diversity students with outstanding academic potential. The program provides students who plan to pursue a Ph.D. degree and enter academic careers with the tools needed to facilitate the application, admission, and enrollment process for graduate school. more » IM-SURE The Integrated Micro/Nano Summer Undergraduate Research Experience (IM-SURE) at UCI, provides a unique 10-week paid summer research opportunity for undergraduates to become fully immersed in cutting-edge micro/nano research and applications. more » SURP The Summer Undergraduate Research Program (SURP) provides funding for UCI undergraduates from all disciplines who are conducting summer research projects or creative activities under the guidance of UCI faculty members. The program offers students the opportunity to become immersed in a research topic for a paid full-time ten-week period, or the equivalent of 400 hours. more » More Undergraduate Contact Academic advising Course updates Academic year plan ICS majors Double major 2nd baccalaureate ICS minors Petitions Policies Academic honesty Academic standing Add, drop, & change options Change of Major Concurrent Enrollment Coursework outside UCI CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Grade policy ICS Credit by Exam Laptop & computer use Withdrawal/Readmission Graduation ICS student life Upcoming events Computing support Title IX Resources Newly Admitted to ICS Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences University of California, Irvine 6210 Donald Bren Hall Irvine, CA 92697-3425 UCI Homepage UCI Directory Faculty & Staff ICS Intranet Kay Family Foundation Lab Facilities News Events Map & Directions Employment Safety Procedures Privacy Policy Apply Contact Gift © UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences ➤