11145
www.ics.uci.edu/ugrad/honors/honors_application.php
honors program application @ the bren school of information and computer sciences ABOUT About the School Dean's Welcome Facts and Figures Donald Bren Hall Visit the Bren School Equity & Diversity Contact Us DEPARTMENTS Computer Science Informatics Statistics RESEARCH Research Areas Research Centers Research Highlights STUDENTS Graduate ▸ Prospective Students How to Apply Programs of Study Academic Year Plan Forms Policies Funding & Housing Computing Support Campus Resources Visit the Bren School Graduate Student Handbook Contact Undergraduate ▸ Contact Academic Advising Course Updates Academic Year Plan Petitions ICS Majors ICS Minors Policies: Academic Integrity Policies: Academic Standing Policies: Add, drop, & change options Policies: Coursework outside UCI Policies: Grade policy Policies: Laptop & computer use Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses Graduation ICS Student Life Upcoming Events Computing Support Scholarships & Fellowships Student Jobs & Internships PEOPLE Faculty Staff Graduate Students NEWS & EVENTS Newsroom Events Press Releases Annual Reports Student Blogs GET INVOLVED Make a Gift Alumni Leadership Council Corporate Partners Sponsor Projects Product Development Competition Bren school home / Undergraduate / ICS Honors Program Honors program application Please be sure you have reviewed the program details and eligibility requirements before applying. Please submit your Bren School of ICS Honors Application by noon on Monday June, 1st. Please inform your 2 Bren School faculty references that they must access the reference form via the Bren School faculty intranet and submit it by June 1. For further information, please contact the Bren School Student Affairs office at (949) 824-5156, or send email to ucounsel@uci.edu. Bren School Honors Program Application (all fields required) First Name Last Name Student ID Street Address City State Zip E-mail Phone Overall G.P.A. Overall G.P.A. Group 1 Course options: CS, ICS major: ICS 21, 22, 23 51, 52 CSE major: CSE 21, 22, 23, 25, 31 Informatics major: Informatics 41, 42, 43, 44 Overall G.P.A. Group 2 Course options: CS, ICS major:Math 6D or 6A, or ICS 6D or 6A Math 6G or 6C, or Math 3A CSE major: same as above Informatics major: Informatics 101, 111, 121, 131 Have you completed lower-division writing? Yes No Are you a member of the Campuswide Honors Program? Yes No Please list 2 Bren School faculty references 1. 2. Please write a one-page statement about yourself, your intellectual achievements, accomplishments and goals. You may wish to indicate any research projects (ICS 199) you have been actively involved in and explain why you should be a consideration for the ICSHP. More Undergraduate Contact Academic advising Course updates Academic year plan ICS majors Double major 2nd baccalaureate ICS minors Petitions Policies Academic honesty Academic standing Add, drop, & change options Change of Major Concurrent Enrollment Coursework outside UCI CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Grade policy ICS Credit by Exam Laptop & computer use Withdrawal/Readmission Graduation ICS student life Upcoming events Computing support Title IX Resources Newly Admitted to ICS Quick Links - select a page - Computing support CS Seminar Series Employment Facilities Find faculty and staff Giving to the Bren School Graduate degrees Kay Family Foundation Lab Project ICS Prospective undergraduates Safety procedures Undergraduate degrees Copyright Inquiries | UCI Directory | Intranet