11238
www.ics.uci.edu/ugrad/policies/Academic_Standing
academic standing @ the bren school of information and computer sciences HOME ABOUT About the School Dean's Welcome Facts and Figures Donald Bren Hall Visit the Bren School Equity & Diversity Contact Us DEPARTMENTS Computer Science Informatics Statistics RESEARCH Research Areas Research Centers Research Highlights STUDENTS Graduate ▸ Prospective Students How to Apply Programs of Study Academic Year Plan Forms Policies Funding & Housing Computing Support Campus Resources Visit the Bren School Graduate Student Handbook Contact Undergraduate ▸ Contact Academic Advising Course Updates Academic Year Plan Petitions ICS Majors ICS Minors Policies: Academic Integrity Policies: Academic Standing Policies: Add, drop, & change options Policies: Coursework outside UCI Policies: Grade policy Policies: Laptop & computer use Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses Graduation ICS Student Life Upcoming Events Computing Support Scholarships & Fellowships Student Jobs & Internships PEOPLE Faculty Staff Graduate Students NEWS & EVENTS Newsroom Events Social Media Press Releases Annual Reports Student Blogs GET INVOLVED Make a Gift Alumni Leadership Council Corporate Partners Sponsor Projects Product Development Competition Bren school home / Undergraduate / policies Undergraduate Student Policies Academic Standing Students' academic status is reviewed on a quarterly basis. Academic standing is determined by GPA and degree progress. To be in good standing: Maintain a quarterly and cumulative GPA above 2.0, and Make progress towards your degree The Student Affairs Office will notify students of their academic probation status via their UCI email account. The letter will include requirements and an academic probation contract which will outline specific conditions that must be met in order to return to good academic standing. It is the student’s responsibility to: Manage their UCI account Read and respond to official messages from their academic counselors immediately Monitor academic progress and maintain good academic standing. Failure to meet the steps outlined in the academic probation letter will result in either an administrative hold on the student’s record or academic disqualification. Students should contact their academic counselor soon after receiving the academic probation notification to ensure their upcoming course load is reasonable and to learn about helpful campus resources. » Academic Probation Students are on academic probation any time their quarterly or cumulative GPA falls below 2.0. **If a student’s term or cumulative GPA falls below a 1.5, the student will be dismissed from the Donald Bren School of ICS effective immediately. This policy applies to full-time and part-time students. Subject to academic disqualification -AP 1 results if the student’s term or cumulative GPA falls below a 2.0. -Student is subject to academic disqualification. *Please note that being subject to disqualification is NOT the same as being formally disqualified. -Student is given the opportunity to appeal. Academic Disqualification -Academic disqualification will result if the student is on two consecutive quarters of academic probation. -Student is not given the opportunity to appeal. » Submitting a Letter of Appeal A letter of appeal should explain any unusual or extenuating circumstances that may have contributed to the student's academic difficulties (i.e. health issues, family responsibilities, situations outside of student's control, difficulty understanding course material, time management, etc.). The student should also explain their plans and actions for effectively addressing these circumstances in order to return to good academic standing. Essentially, the letter of appeal is the student's opportunity to advocate for themselves and to explain why a reconsideration should be granted. The Associate Dean will carefully review the student's appeal letter, transcript and academic file with the academic counselors before making a final decision. Note that the Associate Dean for Student Affairs is the chief academic officer for the Bren School of ICS, and his decisions regarding disqualification appeals are final. Decisions will be sent to students within seven to ten business days. Students should try to be patient with the process as it takes time to complete a holistic review of the student's academic history. Note: Naturally, many students ask what the chances are of having their appeal granted. A determination cannot be made until the Associate Dean completes the holistic review. The Associate Dean makes a final decision in the best interest of the student. If the appeal is granted, the student will be held to an academic contract that outlines the expectations and timeframe for returning to good academic standing. If the appeal is denied, the student will be formally disqualified from the major, the Bren School of ICS, and UC Irvine. » Disqualification If a student is formally disqualified, he or she may not register for courses or use university services after a stated date. The Registrar's Office will also be instructed to note the effective date of the disqualification on the student's official transcript. It is recommended that the student see an academic counselor to learn about the readmission process and policy. » Readmission If a student has been formally disqualified, the student is encouraged to make an appointment to speak with an academic counselor to learn about the readmission policy and to strategize future plans and goals. Please visit the page on Withdrawal and Readmission for additional information. If / when the student readmits to ICS after being academically disqualified, the student must earn a 2.0 term GPA and Cs or higher in each course for the first quarter of return. Failure to meet these terms may result in academic probation or be subject to disqualification. More Undergraduate Contact Academic advising Course updates Academic year plan ICS majors Double major 2nd baccalaureate ICS minors Petitions Policies Academic honesty Academic standing Add, drop, & change options Change of Major Concurrent Enrollment Coursework outside UCI CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Grade policy ICS Credit by Exam Laptop & computer use Withdrawal/Readmission Graduation ICS student life Upcoming events Computing support Title IX Resources Newly Admitted to ICS Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences University of California, Irvine 6210 Donald Bren Hall Irvine, CA 92697-3425 UCI Homepage UCI Directory Faculty & Staff ICS Intranet Kay Family Foundation Lab Facilities News Events Map & Directions Employment Safety Procedures Privacy Policy Apply Contact Gift © UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences ➤