11249
www.ics.uci.edu/ugrad/policies/Readmission_DQ.php
readmission after disqualification @ the bren school of information and computer sciences HOME ABOUT About the School Dean's Welcome Facts and Figures Donald Bren Hall Visit the Bren School Equity & Diversity Contact Us DEPARTMENTS Computer Science Informatics Statistics RESEARCH Research Areas Research Centers Research Highlights STUDENTS Graduate ▸ Prospective Students How to Apply Programs of Study Academic Year Plan Forms Policies Funding & Housing Computing Support Campus Resources Visit the Bren School Graduate Student Handbook Contact Undergraduate ▸ Contact Academic Advising Course Updates Academic Year Plan Petitions ICS Majors ICS Minors Policies: Academic Integrity Policies: Academic Standing Policies: Add, drop, & change options Policies: Coursework outside UCI Policies: Grade policy Policies: Laptop & computer use Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses Graduation ICS Student Life Upcoming Events Computing Support Scholarships & Fellowships Student Jobs & Internships PEOPLE Faculty Staff Graduate Students NEWS & EVENTS Newsroom Events Social Media Press Releases Annual Reports Student Blogs GET INVOLVED Make a Gift Alumni Leadership Council Corporate Partners Sponsor Projects Product Development Competition Bren school home / Undergraduate / policies Undergraduate Student Policies Readmission after Disqualification Readmission is possible for students who have been academically disqualified! It is highly recommended that a student meet with an academic counselor BEFORE taking any coursework. Student should visit the ICS acadmic counselor as soon as he/she has been notified of formal disqualification. In general, a student will need to demonstrate that he/she can finish remaining coursework within the scope of university policies regarding credit hour unit limits. A student readmitted after academic disqualification will be held to the conditions of a contract specifying a course plan, unit maximum per quarter, GPA expectations, and mandatory advising sessions. Failure to meet the contract conditions may lead to automatic disqualification. The UCI readmission application must be accompanied by: 1. A written statement no longer than 2 pages that details the following: reason(s) for leaving, reason(s) for returning (including new or renewed interest/focus on Bren School major), ways that previous or existing obstacles to academic progress have been addressed and will be addressed in the future. 2. An official transcript showing completion of a minimum of one full-time academic year of courses taken through UCI Division of Continuing Education-Concurrent Enrollment, a community college or another comparable institution. Please note that the full time course load for the quarters / semesters must be taken consecutively; breaks in academic study between a quarter or semester are not allowed. At least six of these courses must meet major requirements (includes math courses). Must earn Cs or higher in each course. Minimum of 2.5 cumulative GPA for this year of work. 3. If the student wishes to pursue and be readmitted to a different major outside of ICS, he/she should call that specific department to learn about their readmisson policy/process. More Undergraduate Contact Academic advising Course updates Academic year plan ICS majors Double major 2nd baccalaureate ICS minors Petitions Policies Academic honesty Academic standing Add, drop, & change options Change of Major Concurrent Enrollment Coursework outside UCI CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Grade policy ICS Credit by Exam Laptop & computer use Withdrawal/Readmission Graduation ICS student life Upcoming events Computing support Title IX Resources Newly Admitted to ICS Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences University of California, Irvine 6210 Donald Bren Hall Irvine, CA 92697-3425 UCI Homepage UCI Directory Faculty & Staff ICS Intranet Kay Family Foundation Lab Facilities News Events Map & Directions Employment Safety Procedures Privacy Policy Apply Contact Gift © UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences ➤