11240
www.ics.uci.edu/ugrad/policies/Computer_Acct_Backup.php
account allocation and backups @ the bren school of information and computer sciences HOME ABOUT About the School Dean's Welcome Facts and Figures Donald Bren Hall Visit the Bren School Equity & Diversity Contact Us DEPARTMENTS Computer Science Informatics Statistics RESEARCH Research Areas Research Centers Research Highlights STUDENTS Graduate ▸ Prospective Students How to Apply Programs of Study Academic Year Plan Forms Policies Funding & Housing Computing Support Campus Resources Visit the Bren School Graduate Student Handbook Contact Undergraduate ▸ Contact Academic Advising Course Updates Academic Year Plan Petitions ICS Majors ICS Minors Policies: Academic Integrity Policies: Academic Standing Policies: Add, drop, & change options Policies: Coursework outside UCI Policies: Grade policy Policies: Laptop & computer use Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses Graduation ICS Student Life Upcoming Events Computing Support Scholarships & Fellowships Student Jobs & Internships PEOPLE Faculty Staff Graduate Students NEWS & EVENTS Newsroom Events Social Media Press Releases Annual Reports Student Blogs GET INVOLVED Make a Gift Alumni Leadership Council Corporate Partners Sponsor Projects Product Development Competition Bren school home / Undergraduate / policies Undergraduate Student Policies Account Allocation GENERAL ACCOUNT INFORMATION Most computing in the Bren School is done on either UNIX based Sun workstations or on Windows based PCs. These machines have various uses -- research, departmental administration, undergraduate instruction, graduate instruction -- but all are networked together and share a common file space. In particular, no matter which departmental computer you use, either Windows or Sun, you will use the same account with the same home directory. All Bren School majors receive both UNIX and Windows accounts. Non-major students receive accounts only if the Bren School course they are enrolled in requires an account on a particular platform. There are directions for activating instructional accounts on-line at Activating Instructional Accounts and in the CS 364 lab. Bren School majors and other students enrolled in certain Bren School courses have access to a variety of computers in several labs. These machines allow you to: read and send e-mail, read announcements for your classes through newsgroups, and complete classwork programming assignments. Unless you are involved in research, these computers in the instructional labs are the only machines you will be able to use. If you do become involved in research with a faculty member she may decide to give you access to her machines. You can check out the Lab Hour and Lab Equipment for more information. Expiration - Expiration dates for accounts are taken from enrollment data provided by the Registrar. When an account is about to expire, an automated email notice is sent. In the normal course of events, if you are a Bren School major your account will be automatically extended and you will never see such messages. Non-Bren School majors will receive these messages as their accounts are opened and closed each quarter depending on course enrollment. If you continue to enroll in a Bren School course, your account will reactivate automatically. If the Registrar does not list you, or you fail to enroll on time, you will be sent one of these notices. If you receive a notice in error, contact helpdesk@ics.uci.edu. Quotas - Your quota is the amount of disk space you are allowed to use. Undergraduate students get a quota of 100 MB. For information on how to check your quota, please see Account Quota. Please Note - When contacting support, please include your Bren School login and student ID number to facilitate the processing of your request. If you change your name or student ID number, you need to notify helpdesk@ics.uci.edu. Otherwise, your account may be automatically locked or your quota removed because of the way the registrar's system works. For general information about what support offers undergraduate students see Student Information. Backups Any data on the Bren School network filer TRON have the snapshot ability available for self restore. Snapshots retain data for 30 days. To request something be restored from backups, please contact computing support. More Undergraduate Contact Academic advising Course updates Academic year plan ICS majors Double major 2nd baccalaureate ICS minors Petitions Policies Academic honesty Academic standing Add, drop, & change options Change of Major Concurrent Enrollment Coursework outside UCI CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Grade policy ICS Credit by Exam Laptop & computer use Withdrawal/Readmission Graduation ICS student life Upcoming events Computing support Title IX Resources Newly Admitted to ICS Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences University of California, Irvine 6210 Donald Bren Hall Irvine, CA 92697-3425 UCI Homepage UCI Directory Faculty & Staff ICS Intranet Kay Family Foundation Lab Facilities News Events Map & Directions Employment Safety Procedures Privacy Policy Apply Contact Gift © UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences ➤