11250
www.ics.uci.edu/ugrad/policies/Withdrawal_Readmission
withdrawal and readmission @ the bren school of information and computer sciences HOME ABOUT About the School Dean's Welcome Facts and Figures Donald Bren Hall Visit the Bren School Equity & Diversity Contact Us DEPARTMENTS Computer Science Informatics Statistics RESEARCH Research Areas Research Centers Research Highlights STUDENTS Graduate ▸ Prospective Students How to Apply Programs of Study Academic Year Plan Forms Policies Funding & Housing Computing Support Campus Resources Visit the Bren School Graduate Student Handbook Contact Undergraduate ▸ Contact Academic Advising Course Updates Academic Year Plan Petitions ICS Majors ICS Minors Policies: Academic Integrity Policies: Academic Standing Policies: Add, drop, & change options Policies: Coursework outside UCI Policies: Grade policy Policies: Laptop & computer use Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses Graduation ICS Student Life Upcoming Events Computing Support Scholarships & Fellowships Student Jobs & Internships PEOPLE Faculty Staff Graduate Students NEWS & EVENTS Newsroom Events Social Media Press Releases Annual Reports Student Blogs GET INVOLVED Make a Gift Alumni Leadership Council Corporate Partners Sponsor Projects Product Development Competition Bren school home / Undergraduate / policies Undergraduate Student Policies Withdrawal and Readmission Students who are planning to withdraw from the University are encouraged to seek advice from an academic counselor to discuss the withdrawal and readmission process. » Withdrawing from UCI If the decision to withdraw is made after tuition and fees for an academic quarter are paid, a Withdrawal form is required. The form can be picked up in any academic advising office (including the ICS Student Affairs Office), as well as from the Registrar's Office. Bren Students must obtain the signature of the Associate Dean for Student Affairs before submitting the form to the Registrar's Office for processing. Please note that an ICS academic counselor may sign on the Associate Dean for Student Affairs' behalf. Information on the schedule of refunds can be found on the University Registrar website. If the decision to withdraw is made before tuitions and fees for the next quarter are paid, a formal notice of withdrawal or withdrawal form is not necessary, although recommended. » Readmitting to UCI Readmission to UCI and the Bren School of ICS is NOT automatic. There are different policies and processes for readmission based on the student's reasons for and time of withdrawal. If a student is seeking to readmit after voluntary withdrawal from UCI while in good standing, readmission will be granted if the student re-enrolls within one year. After more than one year, it will be considred on a case by case basis. The Associate Dean for Student Affairs will make the decision to readmit a student based on additional documentation, including the following: number of completed units while at UCI number of units remaining for completion of general education and degree requirements grades for coursework taken at other institutions or through UCI Division of Continuing Education, Concurrent Enrollment demonstrated readiness for the academic challenge of UCI coursework. All materials required for readmission petition must be submitted as a complete package. An academic counselor will attach a summary of previous course work and/or contract conditions for the Associate Dean’s consideration. There are additional readmission requirements if a student withdrew while on academic probation or after academic disqualification: For Readmission After Voluntary Withdrawal from UCI While on Academic Probation For Readmission After Academic Disqualification » Other Readmission Info Students must meet with an ICS academic counselor well in advance of the quarter in which the student plans on readmitting. Readmission applications are processed by ICS academic counselors. For information about fees, procedures and deadlines, visit the Registrar’s website on readmission. Note that only UC-transferable courses will be considered when determining a student's eligibility for readmission to one of the Bren School majors. A readmitted student who has not been enrolled at UCI for three or more consecutive quarters must adhere to the graduation requirements in effect for the quarter in which the student is readmitted, OR those subsequently established. More Undergraduate Contact Academic advising Course updates Academic year plan ICS majors Double major 2nd baccalaureate ICS minors Petitions Policies Academic honesty Academic standing Add, drop, & change options Change of Major Concurrent Enrollment Coursework outside UCI CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Grade policy ICS Credit by Exam Laptop & computer use Withdrawal/Readmission Graduation ICS student life Upcoming events Computing support Title IX Resources Newly Admitted to ICS Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences University of California, Irvine 6210 Donald Bren Hall Irvine, CA 92697-3425 UCI Homepage UCI Directory Faculty & Staff ICS Intranet Kay Family Foundation Lab Facilities News Events Map & Directions Employment Safety Procedures Privacy Policy Apply Contact Gift © UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences ➤