11261
www.ics.uci.edu/ugrad/sao/index
academic advising @ the bren school of information and computer sciences HOME ABOUT About the School Dean's Welcome Facts and Figures Donald Bren Hall Visit the Bren School Equity & Diversity Contact Us DEPARTMENTS Computer Science Informatics Statistics RESEARCH Research Areas Research Centers Research Highlights STUDENTS Graduate ▸ Prospective Students How to Apply Programs of Study Academic Year Plan Forms Policies Funding & Housing Computing Support Campus Resources Visit the Bren School Graduate Student Handbook Contact Undergraduate ▸ Contact Academic Advising Course Updates Academic Year Plan Petitions ICS Majors ICS Minors Policies: Academic Integrity Policies: Academic Standing Policies: Add, drop, & change options Policies: Coursework outside UCI Policies: Grade policy Policies: Laptop & computer use Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses Graduation ICS Student Life Upcoming Events Computing Support Scholarships & Fellowships Student Jobs & Internships PEOPLE Faculty Staff Graduate Students NEWS & EVENTS Newsroom Events Social Media Press Releases Annual Reports Student Blogs GET INVOLVED Make a Gift Alumni Leadership Council Corporate Partners Sponsor Projects Product Development Competition Bren school home / Undergraduate / Academic advising Academic Advising & Planning Welcome! It is the student's responsibility to make decisions about his/her educational and career goals. Undergraduate Counselors are here to help students work towards those goals, and academic advising is an intentional partnership between the student and his/her counselor(s) in which the shared goal is the student’s academic success. To get you started, use the ICS Student Timeline to learn which resources would be most beneficial to you. Need To Speak With An Undergraduate Counselor? The ICS Student Affairs Office is located in the ICS Building, Suite 352. Undergraduate Counselors are available to assist students on a wide range of topics, including, but not limited to: Planning and selecting courses Graduation checks Long and short term goal setting Referrals to campus resources To find out more information regarding the different types of advising meetings, please see our appointments and walk in hours page. Before Your Meeting Arrive on time. Call ahead if you will be late, or need to reschedule Come prepared with questions and concerns Bring a notebook or your laptop to write notes down Keep an open mind to consider the options presented to you Need Help Deciding Which Classes To Register In? We strongly encourage all of our students to create an Academic Plan to assist with registering for classes each quarter and to help stay on track for graduation. Students should attend an Academic Planning Workshop to learn how to create a 4-year plan. Please see our Calendar of Events to view the list of dates. To help get you started, follow these steps to create your Academic Plan. 1) Review the UCI Catalogue for your specific major. Make sure to click on the course name to review the pre-requisites. Make sure to review the Sample Plans on the Catalogue for your major. Scroll down to the bottom of the page for your major to find the sample plan. If your major requires a Specialization (Computer Science, Informatics, Computer Game Science) make sure to factor those required courses into your plan. Pay close attention to course pre-requisites and know which ones you have cleared. If you need to submit a prerequisite clearing request, make sure to do it in advance. 2) Refer to your Degreeworks. This will be helpful for tracking both major and GE requirements. 3) Academic Year Plan- This valuable tool will show you when classes are scheduled to be offered (fall, winter, spring) and will assist you in planning. You will be planning your schedule based on the current year’s plan. The Academic Year Plan is updated during the spring quarter each year and it is your responsibility to check the new plan and update your 4-year plan accordingly. Make special note of any required classes that are only offered once a year or once every other year, or must be taken in a specific order. 4) Academic Planning Worksheet- use this PDF to save and update your plan as the year progresses. 5) Have a Peer Advisor or Undergraduate Counselor review your plan! We are more than happy to review your plan with you and offer suggestions. 6) Be prepared to be flexible! Plans can and will change! Need Help Enrolling In Your Classes? Confused about wait-lists? Worried that the course that you need will fill up before your enrollment window? WebReg Do’s and Don’ts ICS Enrollment Strategies Make sure to attend the Registration 101 workshop! Check the Calendar of Events to make sure you attend before your enrollment window opens! Can’t Find What You’re Looking For? If you are unable to find what you are looking for on our website, please feel free to send us an email: ucounsel@uci.edu More Undergraduate Contact Academic advising Course updates Academic year plan ICS majors Double major 2nd baccalaureate ICS minors Petitions Policies Academic honesty Academic standing Add, drop, & change options Change of Major Concurrent Enrollment Coursework outside UCI CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Grade policy ICS Credit by Exam Laptop & computer use Withdrawal/Readmission Graduation ICS student life Upcoming events Computing support Title IX Resources Newly Admitted to ICS Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences University of California, Irvine 6210 Donald Bren Hall Irvine, CA 92697-3425 UCI Homepage UCI Directory Faculty & Staff ICS Intranet Kay Family Foundation Lab Facilities News Events Map & Directions Employment Safety Procedures Privacy Policy Apply Contact Gift © UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences ➤