12471
www.ics.uci.edu/~dechter/software.html
Dr. Rina Dechter @ UCI :: Software Prof. Rina Dechter, Ph.D Artificial Intelligence Office: DBH 4232 Phone: 1.949.824.6556 Email: dechter_at_ics.uci.edu Highlights and News I am on sabbatical at UMD 2018-2019 BOOK (2019) Second edition of my book: "Reasoning with Probabilistic and Deerministic Graphical Models" just appeared NEWS Charles River Analytics uses FIGRAO to develop probabilistic reasoning tools for US Air Force satellites PACE CHALLENGE (2016) Our CVO algorithm won first place in the parallel heuristic treewidth category of the 1st Parameterized Algorithms and Computational Experiments (PACE) Challenge. (link / paper / slides) BOOK (2013) Reasoning with Probabilistic and Deterministic Graphical Models: Exact Algorithms AWARD 2013 ACM Fellow (link 1 / link 2) PASCAL CHALLENGE (2012) Solvers by current and former students won first places in all nine categories of the 2011 PASCAL Probabilistic Inference Challenge. (link 1 / link 2) UAI COMPETITION (2010) Our solvers IJGP and FormulaSampleSearch won first places in two categories each, Daoopt won third place in three categories. (link 1 / link 2) MINI-SCHOOL UCI Lifted Algorithms Mini-School (November 3-6) BOOK (2010) 'Heuristic, probability and Causality: a tribute to Judea Pearl' (link) IJCAI 2013 TUTORIAL Constraint Processing and Probabilistic Reasoning More Home Biographical Research Overview My Group Publications Selected Talks Awards Software Courses My Books Software GpuBE : This code implements an inference-based algorithm which exploits Graphical Processing Units (GPUs) to speed up the resolution of exact and approximated inference-based algorithms for discrete optimization (e.g., WCSPs). For details, please refer to the original paper. Ferdinando Fioretto, Enrico Pontelli, William Yeoh, and Rina Dechter Accelerating Exact and Approximate Inference for (Distributed) Discrete Optimization with GPUs, CoRR abs/1608.05288 (2016). Merlin : Merlin is an extensible C++ library that implements state-of-the-art exact and approximate algorithms for probabilistic inference over graphical models including both directed and undirected models (e.g., Bayesian networks, Markov Random Fields). It can be used for many applications and research in bioinformatics, computer vision, or speech and language processing to name a few. Merlin supports the most common probabilistic inference tasks such as computing the partition function or probability of evidence (PR), posterior marginals (MAP), as well as MAP (also known as maximum aposteriori or most probable explanation) and marginal MAP configurations. By Radu Marinescu, IBM Research Ireland. Daoopt : DAOOPT: Distributed AND/OR Optimization An implementation of sequential as well as distributed AND/OR Branch-and-Bound and its Breadth-Rotating AND/OR Branch-and-Bound enhancement for combinatorial optimization problems expressed as MPE (max-product) queries over graphical models like Bayes and Markov networks. By Lars Otten, University of California, Irvine. Also see Daoopt-Exp for a branch of the above that implements various dynamic heuristics such as factor graph linear programming and lookahead search. This also implements AND/OR Best-First Search with heuristics for subproblem ordering. By William Lam, University of California, Irvine. AOMDD: AOMDD: AND/OR Multivalued Decision Diagrams. A base implementation of AOMDDs, including operations to combine diagrams with an "Apply" operator. Also contains an implementation of bucket elimination using AOMDDs that enable exact inference on problems with high treewidth. By William Lam, University of California, Irvine. IJGP-Sampling-SampleSearch : IJGP-Sampling-SampleSearch. By Vibhav Gogate. SampleSearch for Counting, IJGP for MAR, QuickBB : SampleSearch for approximate counting task, IJGP for MAR task, and QuickBB for computing the treewidth of a graph. By Vibhav Gogate. REES : Reasoning Engine(s) Evaluation Shell. By Radu Marinescu, Kalev Kask and Rina Dechter DIS : Dynamic Importance Sampling for Anytime Bounds of the Partition Function. By Qi Lou, Rina Dechter, and Alexander Ihler. Published at NIPS-17. pyGM : Python Toolbox for Graphical Models. By Alexander Iher. gmid : graphical model inference algorithms for solving influence diagrams. By Junkyu Lee. Benchmark UAI 2006/2008 benchmark instances MPE , PE Collection of MPE Problem Sets Collection of MMAP Problem Sets UAI model files and solutions maintained by Alexander Ihler UAI-Data Link to previous UAI inference competitions UAI 2016 , UAI 2014 , UAI 2012 , UAI 2010 , UAI 2008 , UAI 2006 School of Information and Computer Science University of California, Irvine, CA 92697-3435 Dr. Rina Dechter dechter at ics.uci.edu