1253
cml.ics.uci.edu/category/news?page=events
News | Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems Bren School of Information and Computer Science University of California, Irvine Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems University of California, Irvine Menu Skip to content Home About CML About us News Contact Us People Faculty Alumni Events & Seminars AI/ML Seminar Series ML Reading Group Education & Resources Courses Books UCI Machine Learning Archive Sponsors & Funding Subscribe to CML List News Faculty Positions at UC Irvine Standard Faculty Positions at UC Irvine Application deadline: Jan 15th, 2019 (Applications received by January 1, 2019 will receive fullest consideration.) Apply online at: https://recruit.ap.uci.edu/apply/JPF04950 The Department of Computer Science in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS) at the University of California, Irvine (UCI) invites applications for multiple tenure-track assistant professor or tenured associate/full professor positions beginning July 1, 2019. The Department is interested in individuals with research interests in all aspects of algorithms, artificial intelligence, machine learning, and theory of computing. One opening is targeted at individuals whose computer science expertise aligns with the growing UCI Data Science Initiative. October 12, 2018 Two new NSF awards in Machine Learning for Sameer Singh Standard Congratulations to Professor Sameer Singh for receiving two multi-year research awards from the National Science Foundation (NSF). Under the first grant, Sameer and his research team will develop new algorithms to better explain why classifiers make certain decisions, increasing user trust in such models. The second grant focuses on the development of new approached for extracting multimodal information from documents, such as text, images, numbers, and databases, with the goal of automatically creating new knowledge bases from relatively unstructured written documents. August 29, 2018 Workshop for the Philosophy of Machine Learning Standard UC Irvine held a very successful workshop on the “Philosophy of Machine Learning” on March 17th & 18th, in the Donald Bren Hall Conference Center (DBH 6011). More information may be found at: https://philmachinelearning.wordpress.com/program/. Organizers: Andrew Holbrook (Statistics) and Kino Zhao (Logic and Philosophy of Science) Sponsors: UCI School of Social Sciences; UCI Dept of Logic & Philosophy of Science; UCI Data Science Initiative; and Dr. Babak Shahbaba (via NSF). March 13, 2018 PhD Students win Best Poster Awards Standard Congratulations to CML graduate students for recent poster awards at the 2017 Southern California Machine Learning Symposium held at USC. Zhengli Zhao and Dheeru Dua (with advisor Sameer Singh) won best poster award for their work on generating natural adversarial examples and Eric Nalisnick (with advisor Padhraic Smyth) won honorable mention for his work on boosting variational inference. There were about 50 student posters presented and over 250 machine learning researchers attended the event. Next SoCal ML Symposium is scheduled for Fall 2018, to be hosted by UCLA. November 14, 2017 New Faculty Member: Erik Sudderth Standard We are delighted to welcome new faculty member Erik Sudderth to the Center. Erik recently joined the Department of Computer Science at UCI as an Associate Professor. He is well-known for his research in machine learning, with interests in topics such as graphical models and Bayesian nonparametric methods. Erik’s research group is also active in the application of these ideas to artificial intelligence, vision, and the natural and social sciences. More information about Erik and his research group is available at Erik’s Webpage. November 14, 2017 Singh talk, OC ACM Chapter Standard Center member Prof. Sameer Singh will discuss his research on “Explaining Black-Box Machine Learning Predictions,” which addresses the important and challenging problem of enabling people to understand, predict and trust the behavior of machine learning models and algorithms. More information and online registration is available on the Orange County ACM Chapter Meetup Event page. June 19, 2017 PhD Research Fellowships Standard The Computer Science department at UC Irvine is seeking applicants for PhD research fellowships in artificial intelligence, machine learning, and their related applications, including topics such as deep learning, statistical learning, graphical models, information extraction, computer vision, high-dimensional data analysis, and more. Please see this flier for more information. November 18, 2016 MidCareer Faculty Positions at UC Irvine Standard MidCareer Faculty Positions at UC Irvine Application deadline: Dec 9th 2016 (Applications received by November 9, 2016 will receive fullest consideration.) Apply online at: https://recruit.ap.uci.edu/apply/JPF03719 The University of California, Irvine (UCI) is engaged in a multi-year campuswide strategic expansion and seeks to hire midcareer faculty (advanced assistant, tenured associate, to early full professors) in the area of information and computer sciences who have distinguished publication records and upward trajectories in their research profiles. Qualified applicants with interests in artificial intelligence, computer vision, machine learning, natural language processing, bioinformatics and related topics are encouraged to apply for these positions. UCI has a very active group of faculty in these areas including Anima Anandkumar, Pierre Baldi, Rina Dechter, Charless Fowlkes, Alex Ihler, Rick Lathrop, Eric Mjolsness, Sameer Singh, Padhraic Smyth, Erik Sudderth, and Xiaohui Xie – primarily in the computer science department, with strong interdisciplinary connections to departments such as cognitive science, informatics, and statistics. Recently celebrating its 50th anniversary, UCI is part of the premier public university system in the world. It was recently named by U.S. News & World Report as a top ten public university and by the New York Times as No. 1 among U.S. universities that do the most for low-income students. UCI is located in one of the world’s safest and most economically vibrant communities and is Orange County’s second-largest employer, contributing $4.8 billion annually to the local economy. The University of California, Irvine is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer advancing inclusive excellence. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, disability, age, protected veteran status, or other protected categories covered by the UC nondiscrimination policy. October 28, 2016 Workshop On Interacting with Robots Through Touch Standard Center affiliate Prof. Jeff Krichmar is co-organizing a workshop on “Interacting with Robots Through Touch” at UC Irvine on September 13, 2016: Workshop On Interacting with Robots Through Touch at UC Irvine September 13, 2016 9AM – 6PM 1517 Social and Behavioral Sciences Gateway, University of California, Irvine. Register at: http://www.socsci.uci.edu/~jkrichma/haptics_workshop.html Description: Robots and autonomous systems are increasingly becoming a part of our everyday life. In particular co-Robots, in which robots have a symbiotic relationship with people, have the potential to increase social well-being and open up new socioeconomic opportunities. For example, Human-Robot Interaction (HRI), co-Robotics, and Socially Assistive Robots (SARs) are increasingly being used for entertainment, education, telepresence, rehabilitation and therapy. SARs have the potential to help children with developmental disorders, such as autism or attention deficit disorders. Social robots can act as digital ethnographers by: automatically detecting what robot-generated activities children enjoy most, monitoring development of social structure within the classroom. To date, most of these co-robots focus on eye contact (e.g., shared attention, shared gaze, etc.) and auditory cues (e.g., catch phrases and music), but tend to neglect other sensory systems important for social behavior,! such as tactile interaction. The purpose of this workshop is to explore the use of tactile sensing in HRI and SARs. The day will include talks by invited speakers and a poster session. If you are interested in presenting a poster on this topic, send your abstract to: jkrichma@uci.edu Confirmed Speakers: Andrea Chiba, University of California, San Diego Deborah Forster, University of California, San Diego William Harwin, University of Reading Guy Hoffman, Cornell University Jeffrey L. Krichmar, University of California, Irvine Francis McGlone, Liverpool JM University David J. Reinkensmeyer, University of California, Irvine Veronica J. Santos, University of California, Los Angeles Michael Tolley, University of California, San Diego August 10, 2016 Southern California Machine Learning Symposium Standard On Friday, May 20 2016, UC Irvine will host the Southern California Machine Learning Symposium at CalIT2. The event is co-sponsored by CML, IGB, and the UCI Data Science Initiative. Speakers include: Sanjoy Dasgupta, UC San Diego Michael Jordan, UC Berkeley Tomaso Poggio, MIT Vladimir Vapnik, Columbia University & Facebook Anima Anandkumar, UC Irvine Fei Sha, UCLA Kevin Murphy, Google Pietro Perona, Caltech Pierre Baldi, UC Irvine You can register online at: www.bit.ly/ML2016. For additional information, see the event poster. March 14, 2016 Posts navigation ‹Older posts Search (c) 2015 Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems WordPress/BonPress