12619
www.ics.uci.edu/~dillenco/compsci260
CompSci 260 - Fundamentals of the Design and Analysis of Algorithms - Fall, 2018 (Dillencourt) CompSci 260 - Fundamentals of the Design and Analysis of Algorithms - Fall, 2018 (Dillencourt) Note to students who have already taken this course and want to take the CompSci 260 portion of the masters exam: The CompSci 260 portion of the Comprehensive Masters Exam will be integrated with the Final Exam. To read how this will work, click here. You must sign up for this exam before the signup deadline. The procedure for signing up is posted here. Course Information: Course Instructor: Professor Michael Dillencourt Email: dillenco at ics dot uci dot edu. Please see note on email, below. Office Hours: Click here. I am also available after class for questions. Office: DBH 4086 Reader: Ms. Maral Amir. Email: mamir at uci dot edu Class meetings: Lecture: M W 3:30-4:50 PM, in DBH 1300 No class on Monday, November 12 (Veteran's Day University Holiday) Discussion: M W 5:00-5:50 PM, in DBH 1300 Discussion section is for discussion of homework, exams, etc. If nothing is planned I will use it as an extended office hour to answer questions. However, if nobody is there, I will leave rather than staying until the end. Make sure that you can attend class during the period from 5:00-6:00 M W, even though we will not always have class them. Final Exam: The Final Exam will be held Monday, December 10 at 4:00 PM. The location will most likely be the same as the lecture room. If this is not the case I will let you know well in advance. Midterm Exams: There will be two midterm exams, given on the following days. The exams will be given in the lecture/discussion room. While you may not need all the time, you should plan on staying through the scheduled end of the discussion section on those days. Midterm 1: Wednesday, October 31 Midterm 2: Wednesday, November 28 No make up midterm exams will be given, no matter how valid your reason for missing it. Instead, I will assign a grade based on how you do on the final exam. So if you miss a midterm exam, plan to do really well on the final exam. Drop/Add Policy For the first two weeks of the quarter, all adds and drops will be handled automatically through the Registrar's WebReg system. After the second week of classes, adds and drops will only be allowed in extraordinary circumstances, and they must be approved by the Associate Dean for Graduate Studies. Grading: The grading will be based on the homework, the two midterm exams, and the final exam, according to the following weights: Homework: 5% Midterm 1: 31% Midterm 2: 31% Final exam: 33% The policy for assigning grades will be as follows: Excellent or superior performance in the course will result in an A or A-. Adequate performance in the course will result in a B+ or B grade. Poor performance in the course may result in a grade of C or lower. The standard for passing the CompSci 260 portion of the Masters Exam will be performing at an excellent or superior level (i.e., A- or better) on the final exam. Under certain circumstances, upon request, I may give a grade of S or U (Satisfactory of Unsatisfactory) rather than a letter grade. Such a grade will be assigned only if you request it and I approve your request. I will only approve such a request if you have not already taken this class in a previous offering. If you think you might want be assigned an S/U grade instead of a letter grade, you should talk to me. Homework problems: Recommended homework assignments will be posted weekly. Starting with the second homework assignment, they will be collected and graded. Click here for the homework assignments Course textbook: Kleinberg and Tardos, Algorithm Design, Addison Wesley, 2006. The course will cover the first eight chapters of this book, along with a small number of supplementary readings. Note on Email: If you send me email about the course, please do the following Please include the string "CompSci 260:" at the start of the subject line (to ensure that it gets past my spam filter). Please include your name and student number in the message. If you are not writing me from your official UCI email address, please cc your official UCI email address. (The reason for the first request is self-explanatory. The second and the third are because I occasionally get email from non-UCI-students asking for help on problems, and I want to weed them out.) Course announcements will be sent via email to all students enrolled in the class. If for some reason you are not receiving these announcements, you can view the archive by clicking here. Course notes: Course notes, in the form of slides used for the lectures, will be available on line. Note that you are responsible for all material covered in lecture, discussion, and the relevant portions of the textbook, even if it does not appear in the lecture notes. Click here for course notes (registered students only). List of topics. The following schedule is approximate and may change over the course of the quarter. Week 1: Introduction. The Stable marriage problem. [KT Chapter 1]. Week 2: Basics of Algorithm Analysis. [KT Chapter 2]. Week 3: Basics of Graph Algorithms. [KT Chapter 3]. Week 4: Greedy Algorithms. Shortest Paths. Minimum Spanning Trees. [KT Chapter 4]. Week 5: Divide and Conquer, part 1. [KT Sections 5.1-5.5]. Week 6: Divide and Conquer, part 2. [KT Sections 5.5, 13.5]. Week 7: Dynamic Programming, part 1. [KT Sections 6.1-6.3]. Week 8: Dynamic Programming, part 2. [KT Sections 6.4-6.9]. Week 9: Network Flow. [KT Sections 7.1-7.3]. Week 10: NP-completeness, part 1. [KT Sections 8.1-8.2]. NP-completeness, part 2. [KT Sections 8.3-8.5]. Last modified: October 9, 2018