14840
www.ics.uci.edu/~dsm/members.html
DSM @ UC Irvine -- Members The Group Example Current Members Nalini Venkatasubramanian Professor, Information and Computer Science Reasearch areas: concurrent/distributed systems, reflective and adaptive middleware，Internet-of-things, cyberphysical systems, smart resilient communities, middleware for pervasive and mobile computing environments, multimedia systems and applications. Kyungbaek Kim Faculty Visitor. Reasearch areas: distributed networks and systems. Cheng-Hsin Hsu Faculty Visitor. Reasearch areas: multimedia networking, mobile computing, broadcast/wireless networks, Internet-of-Things (IoT), networked games, cloud/fog computing, and computer networks Yusuf Sarwar Postdoctoral Reasearch areas: wireless networks, mobile computing, sensor networks, and distributed system. Georgios Bouloukakis Postdoctoral Reasearch areas: middleware, software engineering, performance engineering, distributed systems, Internet of Things Kyle Benson Ph.D. Student Reasearch areas: resilient Internet of Things (IoT) data exchange during disaster scenarios. Qiuxi Zhu Ph.D. Student Reasearch areas: Internet of Things (IoT) and combining it with mobile sensing and mobile networking. Nailah Alhassoun Ph.D. Student Reasearch areas: Energy optimization in IoT platforms for safe and resilient communities, Middleware for pervasive and mobile computing environments, Distributed systems. Qing Han Ph.D. Student Reasearch areas: Internet of Things, probabilistic model, failure identification Hang Nguyen Ph.D. Student Reasearch areas: middleware, distributed system, IoT, computer network database, data Mining, algorithm design Praveen Venkateswaran Ph.D. Student Reasearch areas: leveraging in-situ and mobile Internet of Things (IoT) devices to build resilient and secure edge computing and data processing architectures for Cyber-Physical Systems. Guoxi Wang Ph.D. Student Reasearch areas: software-defined networking (SDN) and network security. Fangqi Liu Ph.D. Student Reasearch areas: data collection and exchange in Internet of Things (IoT), mobile wireless network, drones. Ranga Raj (Ph.D. Student) Andrew Yang (B.S. Student) Alumni Prateek Swamy (M.S. Student) Yoon Kyung Shon (M.S. Student) Han Gia Pham (B.S. Student) Taylor Arin Caulfield (B.S. Student) Phu Huu Nguyen (M.S. 2015) Zhijing Qin (Ph.D. 2015, Senior Software Engineer, Pinterest Inc.) Ye Zhao (Ph.D. 2014, Staff Member, Google Inc.) Reza Rahimi (Ph.D. 2014, Research Staff Member, Samsung Research Labs) Do Minh Ngoc (Ph.D. 2014, Senior Staff Member, Arista Networks Inc.) Kyungbaek Kim (Postdoctoral 2012, Assistant Professor, Chonnam National University, Korea) Xiujuan Yi (M.S. 2012) Leila Jalali (Ph.D. 2012, Research Staff Member, IBM Research Labs) Jehan Wickramasuriya (Ph.D. Principal Research Engineer, Motorola Research Labs) Bo Xing (Ph.D. 2009, Ericsson Research) Daniel Massaguer (Ph.D. 2009, Postdoctoral Researcher UCI) Vidhya Balasubramanian (Ph.D. 2009, Assistant Professor, Amrita University, India) Hojjat Jafarpour (Ph.D. 2009, NEC Lab) Yun Huang (Ph.D. 2008, CMU) Minyoung Kim (Ph.D. 2008, Research Sceintist, SRI International) Kyoungwoo Lee (Ph.D. 2008, Assistant Professor, Yonsei University, Korea) Mayur Deshpande (Ph.D. 2007, Google) Qi Han (Ph.D. 2006, Associate Professor, Colorado School of Mines) Shivajit Mohapatra (Ph.D. 2006, Motorola Research Labs) Sebastian Gutierrez-Nolasco (Ph.D. 2007, NASA Ames Research Center) Jonathan Cristoforetti (M.S. 2007 Google Inc.) Jinsu Wang (M.S. 2007 Ernst&Young Inc.) Humeyra Altintas (M.S. 2006) Bhaskar Chatterjee (M.S. 2006) Zhenghua Fu (M.S. 2006, Pelco Lab) Suraj Nagasrinivasa (M.S. 2005) Xiaoping Wei (M.S. 2005, CNET Networks) Henry Yan (M.S. 2005) Xing Zheng (M.S. 2005, Samsung) Mark Panahi (M.S. 2004) Collaborators and Visitors Cheng-Hsin Hsu (Associate Professor, National Tsing Hua University) Kyungbaek Kim (Associate Professor, Chonnam National University) Roman Vitenberg (Professor, University of Oslo) Aiman Erbad (Assistant Professor, Qatar University) Yong-Jin Lee, (Professor, Korea National University of Education) Alfredo Weitzenfeld (Professor, Instituto Tecnológico Autónomo de México) Dan Hoffman (Chief Innovation Officer, Montgomery County, MD) Yi-Ying Huang (Visiting Graduate Student from National Tsing Hua University) Meng-Wei Lee (Visiting Graduate Student from National Tsing Hua University) Shu-Ting Wang (Visiting Graduate Student from National Tsing Hua University) Distributed Systems Middleware Group - School of Information and Computer Sciences - University of California, Irvine Bren Hall, Irvine, CA 92697, USA