15933
www.ics.uci.edu/~eppstein/163
Graph Algorithms Computer Science 163/265, Winter 2019: Graph Algorithms General Course Information The course meets Monday, Wednesday, and Fridays, 3:00 - 3:50 in Social Science Hall, room SSH 100. Prof. Eppstein's office hours are Monday 1-2 and Wednesday 4:30-5:30 in Bren 4082. The teaching assistant is Sameera Ghayyur (office hours Monday 2-3 and Wednesday 1-2 in DBH 2059). We also have two readers for 163, Hadi Khodabandeh and Satish Kotti, and a reader for 265, Gongjin Sun. Online discussions will be provided through Piazza. Coursework will consist of weekly homeworks, a midterm, and a comprehensive final exam. Group work on homeworks is permitted; each student should turn in his or her own copy of the homeworks. Each homework set will have one of the assigned problems graded on GradeScope, and will be scored 50% for that problem and 50% for whether it included an answer on the other other problems. The undergraduate (163) and graduate (265) courses will share lectures, and some homework problems; however, the graduate course will have additional homework problems and different exams. Homeworks will typically be assigned on Fridays and due on GradeScope on the following Friday. The text we will be using is Graph Algorithms, a collection of readings compiled from Wikipedia. Lecture materials will not be distributed to the class; instead, you are encouraged to attend the lecture yourself and take your own notes. Recording the lectures for your own personal use is allowed, but other uses of recorded lectures (including making them available online) is forbidden. Lecture notes of past lectures will be made available for viewing at the TA office hours. The final grade will be formed by combining the numerical scores from the homeworks (20%, with the lowest homework score dropped), midterm (35%), and final (45%). Tentative Schedule of Topics Week 1. Extracting information from graph structure: Web search engines and the PageRank algorithm. Web crawler case study. Review of depth-first search and breadth-first search. Computer representation of graphs and the decorator pattern. Homework 1, due Friday, January 18. To start working from this template, copy the project, and then when your answers are complete, download it as a pdf file. However, you are not required to use this template for your answers. Instructions for turning in your homework will be provided here soon. After the deadline, the same link will be updated with the solutions. Week 2. Tarjan's algorithm for strongly connected components. Maze and river network simulation via invasion percolation case study. Minimum spanning trees and their properties. Prim-Dijkstra-Jarnik algorithm, Boruvka's algorithm, and Kruskal's algorithm. Homework 2, due Friday January 25. Week 3. Holiday Monday, January 21: Martin Luther King, Jr. Day Spreadsheet case study. DAGs and topological ordering. Critical path scheduling case study. Shortest and longest paths in directed acyclic graphs. Homework 3, due Friday February 1. Week 4. Road map path planning case study. Shortest paths and relaxation algorithms. Dijkstra's algorithm, Bellman-Ford algorithm, Johnson's algorithm. A* algorithm, landmark-based distance estimation Preference voting case study and the widest path problem. Homework 4, due Friday February 8. Week 5. Transportation scheduling case study. Euler tours and the traveling salesperson problem. Approximation algorithms and the approximation ratio, MST-doubling heuristic, Christofides' heuristic. Midterm Friday, February 8 – solutions Week 6. Exponential-time dynamic programming for the traveling salesperson problem. Baseball elimination case study. Maximum flow problem, minimum cut problem, max-flow min-cut theorem. Augmenting path (Ford-Fulkerson) algorithm. Homework 5, due Friday February 22. Week 7. Holiday Monday, February 18: Presidents' Day Matchings, Bipartite graphs, formulating bipartite maximum matching as a flow problem, Hopcroft–Karp algorithm. Using matchings to find vertex covers and independent sets, partition into a minimum number of rectangles. Homework 6, due Friday March 1. Week 8. Medical school residency assignment case study, stable marriage, Gale-Shapley algorithm for stable marriage Register allocation case study. Strahler number, graph coloring, greedy coloring, interval graphs, and perfect graphs. Chordal graphs and using Lexicographic breadth-first search to find an elimination ordering. Homework 7, due Friday March 8. Week 9. Social network analysis case study. Erdős numbers, the Oracle of Bacon, and the Milgram small-world experiment. Social network properties: sparsity, small world property, power laws. Methods for generating synthetic networks: Erdős–Rényi model, ERGM, random graphs with fixed degrees, Barabási-Albert (preferential attachment), Kleinberg's model. Centrality, degeneracy and k-cores. Cliques, Moon-Moser bound on maximal cliques, Bron-Kerbosch algorithm. Homework 8, due Friday March 15. Week 10. Planar graphs; review of planarity-related topics from earlier weeks. Road maps, spanning trees of grid graphs, graph coloring and the four-color theorem. Duality, duality of Euler tours and bipartiteness, Euler's formula. Planarity testing and the cycle-based planarity testing algorithm. Fáry's theorem and Schnyder woods. Finals week Final examination (cumulative), Mon, March 18, 4:00-6:00pm. Solution key Material from Previous Course Offerings The syllabus from Spring 2012 has exams from that year and more links to syllabi and exams from earlier quarters.