16720
www.ics.uci.edu/~golson
Making Distance Matter Less Skip to content Making Distance Matter Less Menu Gary M. Olson Publications Authored Books Edited Books Peer Reviewed Journal Articles Peer Reviewed Book Chapters Peer Reviewed Conference Proceedings — Papers Peer Reviewed Conference Proceedings – Extended Abstracts Invited Articles Edited Conference Proceedings Other Publications Book Reviews Gary’s Bookshelf History and Biography The Arts and Literature Food and Drink Books about Books HCI and CSCW Sports Science and Technology Travel, Places Current Events Railways Religion Fiction Vita The Science of Collaboratories Virtual Teams Novox Collaboration Success Wizard DocuViz Collective Intelligence Gary M. Olson Gary M. Olson retired in December 2016. He previously was the Donald Bren Professor of Information and Computer Sciences at the University of California, Irvine, and before that, the Paul M. Fitts Professor of Human-Computer Interaction at the University of Michigan. He is currently Emeritus Professor at both UCI and the University of Michigan, and is still active in research. His research spans the fields of Human-Computer Interaction (HCI) and Computer Supported Cooperative Work (CSCW), with particular interests in collaborative technologies and their role in supporting long-distance work. A recent review of this research was published as Working Together Apart (Morgan & Claypool, 2014). He is also interested in cognition, problem-solving, reasoning, and information visualization. Olson is a Fellow of the Association of Computing Machinery, the Association for Psychological Science, and the American Psychological Association. In 2003, he was elected to the CHI Academy, and in 2006 he received the CHI Lifetime Achievement Award along with his wife, Dr. Judith S. Olson. In 2016 he received the CHI Lifetime Service Award. Besides his professional work, he has serious interests in reading, travel, cooking, baseball, and the Swiss railways. These interests are reflected in Gary’s Bookshelf in this web site. Blog at WordPress.com. Post to Cancel