16749
www.ics.uci.edu/~goodrich/teach/cs162/notes
Course Notes - CS 162 - Formal Languages and Automata Theory Course Notes - CS 162 - Formal Languages and Automata Theory The following documents outline the notes for the course CS 162 Formal Languages and Automata Theory. Much of this material is taken from notes for Jeffrey Ullman's course, Introduction to Automata and Complexity Theory, at Stanford University. Note: Some of the notes are in PDF format. Viewing these files requires the use of a PDF Reader. Notes by Lecture Schedule 1: Introduction. Finite Automata and DFAs. Why Study Automata?, Powerpoint Finite Automata, Powerpoint DFAs, Powerpoint 2: Regular Expressions and Regular Languages. NFAs, Powerpoint Regular Expressions, Powerpoint Regular Expressions in Unix/Linux/Cygwin, Powerpoint Extra: Tutorial about regular expressions in egrep Extra: Lexical analyzer Lex (for reference and applications of regular languages) Regular Languages Decision Properties, Powerpoint 3: Regular and Context-Free Languages. The Pumping Lemma, Powerpoint Regular Language Equivalence and DFA Minimization, Powerpoint Regular Language Closure Properties, Powerpoint Context-Free Grammars, Powerpoint Parse Trees, Powerpoint Extra: YACC (for reference and application of CFGs) 4: CFLs and Push-Down Autamata. Push-Down Automata , Powerpoint Equivalence of PDAs and CFGs , Powerpoint Midterm I 5: Decision Problems for CFLs. Chomsky Normal Form, Powerpoint Pumping Lemma for CFLs, Powerpoint Decision Properties and Parsing (CYK) Algorithm, Powerpoint Extra: More on the CYK Algorithm 6: Turing Machines. Turing Machines, Powerpoint Turing Machines Examples Extra: Turing's original paper "Programming" Turing Machines, Powerpoint 7: Decidability. Undecidable Problems, Powerpoint Rice's Theorem, Powerpoint Extra: The PCP Problem, Powerpoint Midterm II 8: Time complexity. P and NP. NP-completeness. P and NP, Powerpoint NP-Completeness, Powerpoint More NP-Completeness, Powerpoint 9: NP-completeness, continued. Polynomial-time reductions. NP-Complete Reductions, Powerpoint More NP-Complete Reductions, Powerpoint 10: Cryptography. Space complexity. Cryptography Numerical Algorithms The RSA Cryptosystem Space Complexity and Interactive Proofs, Powerpoint Michael T. Goodrich Department of Computer Science University of California, Irvine, CA 92697-3435 USA