16826
www.ics.uci.edu/~gts
Gene Tsudik's Info Page Gene Tsudik Chancellor's Professor of Computer Science formerly known as "Lois and Peter Griffin Professor" and "The Simpson Family Professor" Quagmire Computer Science Department Pewterschmidt School of Information and Computer Sciences University of Caliphoneya, Irvine There are two equivalence classes of idiots: Those who yearn for the past that never was. AND Those who dream of the future that never will be. Quotidian Wisdom (speaking of idiots): For every pithy inspirational quote, saying or proverb, there is army of idiiots willing to believe it. An urgent message to all humorless barbarians inhabiting this long-suffering planet: As a free human being, I reserve the right to disrespect, mock, parody, laugh at, and disbelieve any and all of your deities, saints, prophets, idols, holy fools, political leaders, gurus, kings, presidents and presidential candidates. A moralistic sermon for PhD students: Ballad of Little White Rabbit Crypto Poetry for the masses: Zero Knowledge Made Easy, and Diffie-Hellman for Morons Flowchart for prospective PhD students: Are you a prospective graduate student looking for an advisor? If so, here is an easy and painless way to see if you and I can work together. NOTE: New and updated version! Just click here (round 1), then here (round 2), and finally here (round 3)! Venues and Publishers to avoid: Any conference or journal soliciting submissions via "Call for Paper" IARIA ICST HINDAWI MDPI EAI CREATE-NET WSEAS Research Interests: Privacy Computer & Network Security Applied Cryptography My Pointers: UCI Networked Systems (NetSys) Graduate Program Security and Privacy Research Outfit (SPROUT) Contact Google Scholar Publications Semantic Scholar Profile DBLP Publications Patents Current and Former Students Assorted Facts Favorite Expressions Invented Words Brief Bio: Gene Tsudik is a Chancellor's Professor of Computer Science at the University of California, Irvine (UCI). He obtained his PhD in Computer Science from USC in 1991. Before coming to UCI in 2000, he was at IBM Zurich Research Laboratory (1991-1996) and USC/ISI (1996-2000). His research interests include many topics in security, privacy and applied cryptography. Gene Tsudik is a Fulbright Scholar, Fulbright Specialist (twice), a fellow of ACM, a fellow of IEEE, a fellow of AAAS, and a foreign member of Academia Europaea. From 2009 to 2015 he served as Editor-in-Chief of ACM Transactions on Information and Systems Security (TISSEC, renamed to TOPS in 2016). Gene was the recipient of 2017 ACM SIGSAC Outstanding Contribution Award. He is also the author of the first crypto-poem published as a refereed paper. He suffers from two incurable academic diseases: "Research ADHD" and "Munchausen-without-Proxy".