1708
evoke.ics.uci.edu/newsite?page_id=116
Garnet Hertz – EVOKE Lab and Studio Skip to content EVOKE LAB AND STUDIO Home About News Events Projects People Blog Contact Garnet Hertz Dr. Garnet Hertz is Canada Research Chair in Design and Media Arts and is Associate Professor in the Faculty of Design and Dynamic Media at Emily Carr University in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. Garnet is a maker, builder, theorist, artist and Fulbright Scholar whose work explores themes of technological progress, creativity, innovation and interdisciplinarity. Hertz is Artist in Residence and Research Scientist in Informatics at UCI and is also faculty in the Media Design Program at Art Center College of Design. He has a Ph.D. in Visual Studies from University of California, Irvine. He has shown his work at several notable international venues in thirteen countries including SIGGRAPH, Ars Electronica, and DEAF and was awarded the prestigious 2008 Oscar Signorini Award in robotic art. He is founder and director of Dorkbot SoCal, a monthly Los Angeles-based lecture series on DIY culture, electronic art and design. His research is widely cited in academic publications, and popular press on his work has disseminated through 25 countries including The New York Times, Wired, The Washington Post, NPR, USA Today, NBC, CBS, TV Tokyo and CNN Headline News. Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment Name * Email * Website Search for: Recent Posts [QS] – Personal Data Landscapes Poster My Day as a Data Dealer Viewing the World through Technology’s Eyes Hollowing ‘I’ in the authorship of letters: A note on Flusser and surveillance Health Data Exploration report published Power sector in india on Viewing the World through Technology’s Eyes Ludo Chat™ on [QS] – Personal Data Landscapes Poster Raisey on Viewing the World through Technology’s Eyes Game of thrones 8 online on Values in Design for Collaborative Systems at CTS 2013 www.megadede.ws on Bietz and Gregory speak at “Moving Genomics from Bench to Bedside” workshop Archives June 2014 March 2014 October 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 Categories Data/Self Values in Design Knowledge Infrastructures Emerging Configurations Blog News Meta Log in Entries RSS Comments RSS WordPress.org Proudly powered by WordPress | Theme: Moesia by aThemes