18055
www.ics.uci.edu/~kobsa/right.htm
Homepage of Alfred Kobsa Alfred Kobsa Hi-Res Picture • Office: 6091 Bren Hall (Bldg 314) [directions] [parking] • E-mail: <last name> @ uci.edu [public key] • Phone: +1 949 202-5704 [vcard] • Fax: +1 484 762-6644 • Skype etc. alfredkobsa • WWW: http://www.ics.uci.edu/~kobsa Dr Alfred Kobsa is a Professor Emeritus in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences of the University of California, Irvine. Earlier in his career, he was an Institute Director at the German National Research Center for Information Technology (GMD-FIT, now part of Fraunhofer), and a Professor of Computer Science at the University of Essen, Germany. He was also an Associate Professor of Information Systems at the Department of Information Science at the University of Konstanz, Germany, and a Senior Researcher at the Department of Computer Science of the University of Saarbrücken. He received his master degrees in Computer Science and in the Social and Economic Sciences from the Johannes Kepler University Linz, Austria, and his Ph.D. in Computer Science from the University of Vienna, Austria and the Vienna University of Technology. Dr Kobsa's research lies in the areas of user modeling and personalized systems, privacy, usable security, and support for personal health maintenance. He was the founding editor of User Modeling and User-Adapted Interaction: The Journal of Personalization Research, and the founding president of User Modeling Inc. Dr. Kobsa edited several books and authored numerous publications in the areas of user-adaptive systems, privacy, human-computer interaction and knowledge representation. He also co-founded a national workshop series and an international conference series in these areas. He received research awards from the Humboldt Foundation, Google, and several other organizations. Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences University of California, Irvine Irvine, CA 92697-3440, U.S.A. Last modified:December 27, 2016 12:19 PM