18068
www.ics.uci.edu/~lab/faculties
uc irvine::bren school::lab - faculty Skip over navigation This site will look much better in a browser that supports web standards, but it is accessible to any browser or Internet device. ABOUT About the School Dean's Welcome Facts and Figures Donald Bren Hall Visit the Bren School Equity & Diversity Contact Us DEPARTMENTS Computer Science Informatics Statistics RESEARCH Research Areas Research Centers Research Highlights STUDENTS Graduate ▸ Prospective Students How to Apply Programs of Study Academic Year Plan Forms Policies Funding & Housing Computing Support Campus Resources Visit the Bren School Graduate Student Handbook Contact Undergraduate ▸ Contact Academic Advising Course Updates Academic Year Plan Petitions ICS Majors ICS Minors Policies: Academic Integrity Policies: Academic Standing Policies: Add, drop, & change options Policies: Coursework outside UCI Policies: Grade policy Policies: Laptop & computer use Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses Graduation ICS Student Life Upcoming Events Computing Support Scholarships & Fellowships Student Jobs & Internships PEOPLE Faculty Staff Graduate Students NEWS & EVENTS Newsroom Events Press Releases Annual Reports Student Blogs GET INVOLVED Make a Gift Alumni Leadership Council Corporate Partners Sponsor Projects Product Development Competition Bren school home / labs home / faculty information Faculty » Welcome to the ICS Computing Lab. This section will help provide information that you may need to provide to your students. If you have an comments or questions, please contact the Lab Manager. Lab Guidelines This section lists the rules that are enforced in the lab. Instructions and teaching assistants should also follow the same guideline to set a good example. Labs Access The labs are opened seven days a week except on holidays and during Summer Sessions. Please refer to the Lab Schedule for more details. If you would like to schedule a special lab time for retakes or for extra sessions, please contact the Lab Manager. Project ICS: Students taking this course may use the computers in CS193, which is reserved specifically for this class. More labs» Hours Hardware/Software Students Faculty Policies Lab Assistants Project ICS Computing Support Copyright Inquiries | UCI Directory | Intranet | icswebmaster | Updated: September 09 2011