18101
www.ics.uci.edu/~lab/proj_ics/policy.php
uc irvine::bren school::lab software Skip over navigation This site will look much better in a browser that supports web standards, but it is accessible to any browser or Internet device. ABOUT About the School Dean's Welcome Facts and Figures Donald Bren Hall Visit the Bren School Equity & Diversity Contact Us DEPARTMENTS Computer Science Informatics Statistics RESEARCH Research Areas Research Centers Research Highlights STUDENTS Graduate ▸ Prospective Students How to Apply Programs of Study Academic Year Plan Forms Policies Funding & Housing Computing Support Campus Resources Visit the Bren School Graduate Student Handbook Contact Undergraduate ▸ Contact Academic Advising Course Updates Academic Year Plan Petitions ICS Majors ICS Minors Policies: Academic Integrity Policies: Academic Standing Policies: Add, drop, & change options Policies: Coursework outside UCI Policies: Grade policy Policies: Laptop & computer use Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses Graduation ICS Student Life Upcoming Events Computing Support Scholarships & Fellowships Student Jobs & Internships PEOPLE Faculty Staff Graduate Students NEWS & EVENTS Newsroom Events Press Releases Annual Reports Student Blogs GET INVOLVED Make a Gift Alumni Leadership Council Corporate Partners Sponsor Projects Product Development Competition Bren school home / labs home / Project ICS Computing Policy » Purpose: The purpose of this document is to communicate ICS policy for computers provided to the students enrolled in Informatics 191. The policy also contains specific details as to the level of service provided to students of the course. This document also details the responsibilities of students using ICS provided computing resources. Informatics 191: Project in System Design, covers the following areas of study: Specification, design, construction, testing, and documentation of a complete software system. This course has special emphasis on the need for and use of teamwork, careful planning, and other techniques in working with large systems. Facilities: Informatics 191: Students in this course are provided use of CS 193. No food or drinks are allowed in the lab at any time. Computing Resources: Computing resources for the class include the following: UNIX group (gsu) account NOTE: Printers are available at the OIT and ICS Labs. Students may send their print jobs to these locations. ICS Support Policy: ICS Computing Support Staff will support the computing resources made available to the students of Project ICS courses under the policy set forth in this section. Computer System Support between 8AM – 5PM during business hours. ICS staff will not install additional software. Students Responsibility: This section details the responsibilities of the students enrolled in Project ICS. Students must backup their own data to their home directory, group account directory, or portable medium such as a USB key. Students are responsible to install software on their computes. Students are still required to know and adhere to the UCI computer and network use policy, and the ICS Ethical Use of Computing rules. Additional Software: Any software not provided by ICS is the responsibility of the student and instructor to requisition, purchase and install. These guidelines are the responsibility of the instructor or customer and should be presented by the instructor to the students at the beginning of the quarter. More labs» Hours Hardware/Software Students Faculty Policies Lab Assistants Project ICS Computing Support Copyright Inquiries | UCI Directory | Intranet | icswebmaster | Updated: June 26 2018