1848
evoke.ics.uci.edu?p=231
The EVOKE Studio – EVOKE Lab and Studio Skip to content EVOKE LAB AND STUDIO Home About News Events Projects People Blog Contact The EVOKE Studio The first room encountered at EVOKE is the Studio space – a gloriously huge “big black box” previously inhabited by the UCI Theater & Dance Department. This is where we do our primary building of projects that have taken shape in the Lab, and get to the work of making our ideas physical and presentable. The Studio is where the 3D printing facilities live, as well as the video and audio editing stations. We have a large green screen and floor mat for filming, a high-powered projector and large screen for demonstrations and video-based telecommunication, and ample floor space for exhibitions, performances, presentations, and meetings. The Studio activities turn over rapidly, and students frequently come in to study, hang out, co-design, and tinker with our various technologies for building evocative projects! Stop in and see what we have going on in the EVOKE Studio! One thought on “The EVOKE Studio” Kelly says: April 21, 2019 at 11:09 pm It must be the best place to watch sci-fic movies like 2.0! I like the EVOKE Studio. Hope to get film experience in this studio. Reply Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment Name * Email * Website Search for: Recent Posts [QS] – Personal Data Landscapes Poster My Day as a Data Dealer Viewing the World through Technology’s Eyes Hollowing ‘I’ in the authorship of letters: A note on Flusser and surveillance Health Data Exploration report published Power sector in india on Viewing the World through Technology’s Eyes Ludo Chat™ on [QS] – Personal Data Landscapes Poster Raisey on Viewing the World through Technology’s Eyes Game of thrones 8 online on Values in Design for Collaborative Systems at CTS 2013 www.megadede.ws on Bietz and Gregory speak at “Moving Genomics from Bench to Bedside” workshop Archives June 2014 March 2014 October 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 Categories Data/Self Values in Design Knowledge Infrastructures Emerging Configurations Blog News Meta Log in Entries RSS Comments RSS WordPress.org Proudly powered by WordPress | Theme: Moesia by aThemes