1852
evoke.ics.uci.edu?p=281
Geof Bowker Speaks at NYU – EVOKE Lab and Studio Skip to content EVOKE LAB AND STUDIO Home About News Events Projects People Blog Contact Geof Bowker Speaks at NYU April 9, 2013March 30, 2014 Cory Knobel Along with Sara Hendren (Harvard), Geof will be a speaker in the PROGRAM series at NYU organized by the departments of Media, Culture and Communication, English, and Comparative Literature. More event details can be found here. Values in Technological Design Abstract: The goal for many designers of technology is to produce objects that are useful, but whose use is not dictated by the object design itself. Computers in particular are flexible technologies, and can be programmed to suit a wide variety of functions and needs. Yet despite these goals of technological neutrality, the design of technical objects often shapes their use, and can have far-reaching political, social, and cultural consequences. This event investigates the ways in which values become embodied in technological design and what efforts we might make to address such structures. Knowledge Infrastructures, Emerging Configurations, News permalink Post navigation ← Geof Bowker Speaks at Michigan Values in Design for Collaborative Systems at CTS 2013 → 3 thoughts on “Geof Bowker Speaks at NYU” Best Self Cleaning Litter Box says: August 28, 2017 at 12:42 am Well, the problem which is given here is great and nice to. Reply pool rewards download says: November 23, 2018 at 2:07 am I am particularly fascinated by the introduction of the sullen and disorderly Mr. Gridley, whom Esther observes with notable apprehension Reply aptoide apk iphone download says: March 31, 2019 at 9:01 pm Thank you very much for the nice share. Reply Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment Name * Email * Website Search for: Recent Posts [QS] – Personal Data Landscapes Poster My Day as a Data Dealer Viewing the World through Technology’s Eyes Hollowing ‘I’ in the authorship of letters: A note on Flusser and surveillance Health Data Exploration report published Power sector in india on Viewing the World through Technology’s Eyes Ludo Chat™ on [QS] – Personal Data Landscapes Poster Raisey on Viewing the World through Technology’s Eyes Game of thrones 8 online on Values in Design for Collaborative Systems at CTS 2013 www.megadede.ws on Bietz and Gregory speak at “Moving Genomics from Bench to Bedside” workshop Archives June 2014 March 2014 October 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 Categories Data/Self Values in Design Knowledge Infrastructures Emerging Configurations Blog News Meta Log in Entries RSS Comments RSS WordPress.org Proudly powered by WordPress | Theme: Moesia by aThemes