1854
evoke.ics.uci.edu?p=285
Bietz and Gregory speak at “Moving Genomics from Bench to Bedside” workshop – EVOKE Lab and Studio Skip to content EVOKE LAB AND STUDIO Home About News Events Projects People Blog Contact Bietz and Gregory speak at “Moving Genomics from Bench to Bedside” workshop May 31, 2013March 29, 2014 Cory Knobel Judith Gregory presents at the Moving Genomics from Bench to Bedside workshop, Vancouver, BC. EVOKE members Matthew Bietz and Judith Gregory were recently invited to speak at the Moving Genomics Research from Bench to Bedside: Science, Technology & Society Perspectives workshop on May 24, 2013. The workshop was hosted by Ellen Balka in the School of Communication at Simon Fraser University, with additional support from the Michael Smith Foundation for Health Research and Genome BC. The workshop provided a wonderful opportunity to discuss clinical, legal, ethical, theoretical and infrastructural aspects of bringing genomics into clinical and personal health practices. Bietz presented on his work with the Genomic Standards Consortium, a community standards development organization focusing on developing common formats for data production, description, analysis and exchange. Gregory presented on “The Quantified Self and Personal Genomics,” exploring the challenges and opportunities around personal genomic testing, self-tracking, and sharing personal data to create a public good. Data/Self, News permalink Post navigation ← Values in Design for Collaborative Systems at CTS 2013 Evoke members @ Western Humanities Alliance 2013 → 4 thoughts on “Bietz and Gregory speak at “Moving Genomics from Bench to Bedside” workshop” Gertrude says: February 9, 2016 at 11:00 am What a joy to find soonmee else who thinks this way. Reply zapya for mac says: February 27, 2017 at 3:26 am really thanks for this post admin. Reply iphongthuy net says: April 2, 2019 at 5:59 pm thank you so much IPHONGTHUYNET Reply www.megadede.ws says: May 9, 2019 at 7:59 am If you are interested in making your online video, like a large number of individuals are, there are some important factors that you should keep in mind. Reply Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment Name * Email * Website Search for: Recent Posts [QS] – Personal Data Landscapes Poster My Day as a Data Dealer Viewing the World through Technology’s Eyes Hollowing ‘I’ in the authorship of letters: A note on Flusser and surveillance Health Data Exploration report published Power sector in india on Viewing the World through Technology’s Eyes Ludo Chat™ on [QS] – Personal Data Landscapes Poster Raisey on Viewing the World through Technology’s Eyes Game of thrones 8 online on Values in Design for Collaborative Systems at CTS 2013 www.megadede.ws on Bietz and Gregory speak at “Moving Genomics from Bench to Bedside” workshop Archives June 2014 March 2014 October 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 Categories Data/Self Values in Design Knowledge Infrastructures Emerging Configurations Blog News Meta Log in Entries RSS Comments RSS WordPress.org Proudly powered by WordPress | Theme: Moesia by aThemes