1859
evoke.ics.uci.edu?p=294
Health Data Exploration report published – EVOKE Lab and Studio Skip to content EVOKE LAB AND STUDIO Home About News Events Projects People Blog Contact Health Data Exploration report published March 13, 2014March 29, 2014 Cory Knobel The final report from the Health Data Exploration project has been published by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation! Three EVOKE members – Dr. Matthew Bietz, Dr. Judith Gregory, and Dr. Scout Calvert – collaborated with researchers at the California Institute for Telecommunications and Information Technology (Calit2) at UCSD (Kevin Patrick, PI) to conduct the research and produce the report. About the Report: Health-related data is being tracked more and more as the number of wearable devices and smartphone apps increase. Our report, Personal Data for the Public Good: New Opportunities to Enrich Understanding of Individual and Population Health, examines attitudes towards personal health data from the individuals who track personal health data, the companies involved in self-tracking devices, apps, or services, and the researchers who might use the data. Key Findings Individuals were very willing to share their self-tracking data for research. However, the dominant condition (57%) for making their PHD available for research was an assurance of privacy for their data. Over 90 percent of respondents said that it was important that the data be anonymous. This study showed that the current methods of informed consent are challenged by the ways PHD is being used and reused in research. Researchers are enthusiastic about using PHD in research but are most concerned about the validity of PHD and lack of standardization of devices. Press release: http://www.rwjf.org/en/about-rwjf/newsroom/newsroom-content/2014/03/report–finds-people-willing-to-share-personal-health-data.html Full report: http://www.rwjf.org/en/research-publications/find-rwjf-research/2014/03/personal-data-for-the-public-good.html Health Data Exploration Project: http://www.calit2.net/hdexplore/ Data/Self, News permalink Post navigation ← Cory Knobel receives iConference 2014 best paper award Hollowing ‘I’ in the authorship of letters: A note on Flusser and surveillance → 5 thoughts on “Health Data Exploration report published” Yotan chi says: March 4, 2019 at 10:40 am Interesting health facts/ data that are shared by you. Reply Canon Printer driver says: March 9, 2019 at 10:44 am What impact for wearable devices health data exploration, sell the data? or what Reply Printable Calendar says: March 10, 2019 at 2:16 pm Individuals were very willing to share their self-tracking data for research. However, the dominant condition (57%) for making their PHD available for research was an assurance of privacy for their data. Reply Pingback: Free Printable Calendar 2019 Blank Templates {PDF, Excel, Word} | Calendar morphtv latest says: March 27, 2019 at 1:22 am What you say is are the facts to control our health good and best, superb article you shared sir, thank you Reply Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment Name * Email * Website Search for: Recent Posts [QS] – Personal Data Landscapes Poster My Day as a Data Dealer Viewing the World through Technology’s Eyes Hollowing ‘I’ in the authorship of letters: A note on Flusser and surveillance Health Data Exploration report published Power sector in india on Viewing the World through Technology’s Eyes Ludo Chat™ on [QS] – Personal Data Landscapes Poster Raisey on Viewing the World through Technology’s Eyes Game of thrones 8 online on Values in Design for Collaborative Systems at CTS 2013 www.megadede.ws on Bietz and Gregory speak at “Moving Genomics from Bench to Bedside” workshop Archives June 2014 March 2014 October 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 Categories Data/Self Values in Design Knowledge Infrastructures Emerging Configurations Blog News Meta Log in Entries RSS Comments RSS WordPress.org Proudly powered by WordPress | Theme: Moesia by aThemes