1866
evoke.ics.uci.edu?p=509
Karen Tanenbaum – EVOKE Lab and Studio Skip to content EVOKE LAB AND STUDIO Home About News Events Projects People Blog Contact Karen Tanenbaum Karen Tanenbaum is a Project Scientist with the Department of Informatics and the Director of the Evoke Lab. Her research explores tangible and ubiquitous computing paradigms and the application of artificial intelligence techniques to interactive storytelling and game design. She also studies Maker/DIY and Steampunk cultures, with a particular emphasis on their role in STEM education and the way they function as design fictions for possible alternative relationships to technology. She is also the co-Founder of the Transformative Play Lab at UCI. One thought on “Karen Tanenbaum” Ardeshir Farzi says: February 25, 2019 at 5:01 am Hello Dr. Karen Tanenbaum My name is Ardeshir Farzi and hold an MA in Industrial design, moreover, holding certificates from Domus Academy and Kobe Design University. Now I am teaching Ergonomics (Human Factors Engineering), Design Methodology, and Interactive Urban Furniture at Tehran University of Art for more than 2 years. Furthermore, I have worked for more than 9 years in designing exterior and interior spaces, user-centered products, interactive urban furniture, and platforms. I found you are interested in AI and Game Design that are roughly similar to my research proposal. I am eager to do research in the field of your team. My Research Proposal is about studying local opportunities for improving the user experience of Virtual Reality in Urban Environments. Thus, I decided to send you an email to inquire to consider me as a Ph.D. student. May I ask you please to take a look at my CV to give me feedback? If sending my research proposal may be helpful, please let me know. Reply Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment Name * Email * Website Search for: Recent Posts [QS] – Personal Data Landscapes Poster My Day as a Data Dealer Viewing the World through Technology’s Eyes Hollowing ‘I’ in the authorship of letters: A note on Flusser and surveillance Health Data Exploration report published Power sector in india on Viewing the World through Technology’s Eyes Ludo Chat™ on [QS] – Personal Data Landscapes Poster Raisey on Viewing the World through Technology’s Eyes Game of thrones 8 online on Values in Design for Collaborative Systems at CTS 2013 www.megadede.ws on Bietz and Gregory speak at “Moving Genomics from Bench to Bedside” workshop Archives June 2014 March 2014 October 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 Categories Data/Self Values in Design Knowledge Infrastructures Emerging Configurations Blog News Meta Log in Entries RSS Comments RSS WordPress.org Proudly powered by WordPress | Theme: Moesia by aThemes