18698
www.ics.uci.edu/~mmazmani/Site/Bio.html
Melissa Mazmanian News Publications Bio & CV Research Courses Students Contact Melissa Mazmanian News Publications Bio & CV Research Courses Students Contact Melissa Mazmanian, PhD I am an Associate Professor in Informatics in the School of Information and Computer Sciences and Associate Professor in Organization and Management in the Paul Merage School of Management (joint) at University of California, Irvine. AREAS OF FOCUS My interests revolve around the experience of communication technologies as used in-practice within organizational and personal contexts, specifically in relation to identity projection and the nature of time in the digital age. I have conducted a variety of ethnographic and qualitative research projects on the individual experience and social dynamics that emerge when people adapt to using wireless modes of communication and have a series of publications on these topics. Click here for a short bio > I teach a variety of interdisciplinary courses for the Department of Informatics and the Merage Business School and I have the pleasure of working with a variety of excellent doctoral students. My Academic Background I earned my PhD in Organization Studies from the MIT Sloan School of Management in 2009 where I worked with Wanda Orlikowski and JoAnne Yates. I received my MSI in Information Economics, Management and Policy from the University of Michigan School of Information in 2002. I also completed a BA in 1997 in English Literature and Creative Writing at Colorado College. POsitions I hold In Informatics I currently serve as the Vice Chair for Graduate Affairs, Faculty Director of the LUCI lab for ubiquitous computing and interaction, and DECADE mentor. At UCI I also serve as the Co-Director for the Center for Organizational Research (COR), and member of the executive board for the UCI Center for Ethnography. Vice-Chair for Graduate Affairs ICS graduate students, if you need information on our graduate curriculum, please check out this website. If you need my signature or would like to talk in person, my office hours are Wednesdays from 10:30 am - 12:30 pm. Please make an appointment with me by email or drop by my office during these times. Recent Announcements January, 2019 Mike Lee, Leslie Perlow and I are thrilled that our paper Fostering Positive Relational Dynamics in Teams: The power of spaces and interaction scripts is currently In Press and available for download in the Academy of Management Journal August, 2018 I am honored to accept a position as Senior Editor for the premiere management journal, Organization Science. June, 2018 Christine Beckman and I are happy to see our most recent Organization Science article, “Making” Your Numbers: Engendering Organizational Control Through a Ritual of Quantification, in print. MORE NEWS > Contact TEL 949.824.9284 FAX 949.824.4056 EMAIL mmazmani@uci.edu ADDRESS Click here for detailed directions 5092 Donald Bren Hall Irvine, CA 92697 OFFICE HOURS Wednesdays 10:30am - 12:30pm Apply to be a student If you are interested in applying to study as a graduate student in our department click here. Back to Top Copyright 2019 • Melissa Mazmanian