18725
www.ics.uci.edu/~nmamano
Nil Mamano Nil Mamano I am a 4th year Computer Science PhD candidate in the Theory group at UCI. I am advised by Professor David Eppstein and Professor Michael Goodrich. I have a Bachelor Degree in CS from UPC. I conducted my senior thesis at UCI under the guidance of Professor Wayne Hayes. Office: Donald Bren Hall, room 4099 E-mail: nmamano (at) uci.edu Research interests: Perhaps there are two ways to go about CS: one is to use algorithms as a means to solve problems; the other, to study algorithms as entities of interest in their own right. I gravitate towards the latter. My research is currently driven by the question “When is global information necessary vs when is local information sufficient?” While this is a central question in distributed algorithms, my latest preprint examines it the context of computational geometry. Publications Preprints N. Mamano, A. Efrat, D. Eppstein, D. Frishberg, M. Goodrich, S. Kobourov, P. Matias, V. Polishchuk, “Euclidean TSP, Motorcycle Graphs, and Other New Applications of Nearest-Neighbor Chains,” J.J. Besa, T. Johnson, N. Mamano, M.C. Osegueda, “Taming the Knight’s Tour: Minimizing Turns and Crossings,” Conference publications G. Barequet, D. Eppstein, M.T. Goodrich, and N. Mamano, “Stable-Matching Voronoi Diagrams: Combinatorial Complexity and Algorithms,” ICALP'18 D. Eppstein, M.T. Goodrich, and N. Mamano, “Reactive Proximity Data Structures for Graphs,” LATIN'18 D. Eppstein, M.T. Goodrich, D. Korkmaz, and N. Mamano, “Defining Equitable Geographic Districts in Road Networks via Stable Matching,” short paper in SIGSPATIAL'17 D. Eppstein, M.T. Goodrich, and N. Mamano, “Algorithms for Stable Matching and Clustering in a Grid,” IWCIA'17 D. Eppstein, M.T. Goodrich, J. Lam, N. Mamano, M. Mitzenmacher, and M. Torres, “Models and algorithms for Graph Watermarking,” ISC'16 Journal publications W. Hayes and N. Mamano, “SANA NetGO: a combinatorial approach to using Gene Ontology (GO) terms to score network alignments,” Bioinformatics: Oxford Journals, 2018 N. Mamano and W. Hayes, “SANA: Simulated Annealing far outperforms many other search algorithms for biological network alignment,” Bioinformatics: Oxford Journals, 2017 Projects I contributed to the RACSO online Judge, a great teaching tool for the subject «Theory of Computation». It contains a collection of automatically-judged exercises asking to define recognizers / generators of formal languages (regular or context-free), as well as exercises asking for reductions between problems (undecidable or NP-complete). SANA: a tool for aligning biological networks. A new solution to the knight's tour problem. Here is a collection of songs I've written, and a demo of the song I wrote for my sister's wedding! Last updated: Feb 2019