1876
evoke.ics.uci.edu?page_id=84
Cory Knobel – EVOKE Lab and Studio Skip to content EVOKE LAB AND STUDIO Home About News Events Projects People Blog Contact Cory Knobel Dr. Cory Knobel is a former faculty member of the UCI Department of Informatics, and the founding Executive Director of the EVOKE Lab & Studio. He is currently the Principal and CEO of Research At Work Consulting. Cory is an interdisciplinary scholar with a background in literature, information science, complex systems, and science and technology studies. He holds a Ph.D. in Information from the University of Michigan. Cory’s background also includes industrial consulting experience in human-computer interaction, web design standards, accessible technology design, technology policy, statistical analysis, and reputation and recommender systems design. As Executive Director of the EVOKE Lab, Cory managed development of the lab’s project portfolio, grant strategies, resources, and day-to-day operations. His vision in designing the EVOKE Lab & Studio was driven by creating an open and active space for the entire UCI community to drop in, play, think, make, and come away with an exciting new understanding of social aspects of technology. Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment Name * Email * Website Search for: Recent Posts [QS] – Personal Data Landscapes Poster My Day as a Data Dealer Viewing the World through Technology’s Eyes Hollowing ‘I’ in the authorship of letters: A note on Flusser and surveillance Health Data Exploration report published Power sector in india on Viewing the World through Technology’s Eyes Ludo Chat™ on [QS] – Personal Data Landscapes Poster Raisey on Viewing the World through Technology’s Eyes Game of thrones 8 online on Values in Design for Collaborative Systems at CTS 2013 www.megadede.ws on Bietz and Gregory speak at “Moving Genomics from Bench to Bedside” workshop Archives June 2014 March 2014 October 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 Categories Data/Self Values in Design Knowledge Infrastructures Emerging Configurations Blog News Meta Log in Entries RSS Comments RSS WordPress.org Proudly powered by WordPress | Theme: Moesia by aThemes