18836
www.ics.uci.edu/~pattis/ICS-46/fact.html
Fact Sheet Fact Sheet ICS-46: Data Structure Implementation and Analysis Instructor Information Instructor Richard Pattis Email pattis@ics.uci.edu Office Location DBH 4062 (Bren Hall) Office Phone (949) 824-2704 (but email is better) Office Hours Mon 12:00pm - 1:00pm 3:00pm - 4:00pm Tues 12:00pm - 2:00pm Wed 12:00pm - 1:00pm (except when faculty meetings) 3:00pm - 4:00pm Thr None Fri 12:00pm - 1:00pm Course Mottos ABC: Always Be Coding. Less in more. G-d is in the details. Rich Pattis pattis@ics.uci.edu Instructor Quotes for Learning: I'll encourage you to learn and point the way (but you must engage; often by reading) Learning results from what the student does and thinks, and only from what the student does and thinks. The teacher can advance learning only by influencing the student to learn. - Herbert Simon (Carnegie Mellon University) [T-Shirt version: I can explain it to you, but I cannot understand it for you.] We don't have much time, so we don't teach them; we acquaint them with things that they can learn. - Charles Leiserson (MIT) [Like previewing a route on a map, then sending students to explore the terrain; you must read/experiment with the topics discussed.] Character is created by encountering and overcoming failure. - P. Tough (in his book How Children Succeed) [Make mistakes and learn from them (teaching yourself); mistakes aren't failures, if you learn from them.] Text is linear; it is black and white; it doesn't zoom around the page in 3-D; it isn't intelligent by itself; in fact, in terms of immediate reaction it is quite boring. I can't imagine a single preliterate was ever wowed at the first sight of text, and yet text has been the basis of arguably the most fundamental intellectual transformation of the human species. - A.diSessa (in his book Changing Minds: Computers, Learning, and Literacy [Reading is still the most important way to learn.] Staff Information Dokyung Song dokyungs@uci.edu TA Arda Unal unala@uci.edu TA Xiaoyin Chen xiaoyic6@uci.edu Undergrad Reader Andrew Chio achio@uci.edu Undergrad Reader Carlos David Puentes II cdpuente@uci.edu Undergrad Reader Bryant Gunaman Tutor Chenhao Li Tutor Michelle Nguyen Tutor Joshua Tavassolikhah Tutor Course Help Instructor Office Hours: Please feel free to drop by any time during my office hours, without an appointment (these are open office hours). I cannot provide much debugging help if there are many students waiting to see me (better to see a TA/Lab tutor for debugging help). If you cannot make any of these times and want to schedule an appointment at some other time, e-mail me to arrange one (or, if the question is small, just send me e-mail asking it). Instructor Email: I answer e-mail periodically throughout the day (from about 6:30am to 10:00pm). If you have a question that would be of interest to the entire class, please post it on the appropriate Piazza Message Folders (see below). Instructor Online Hours: I will hold online evening office hours every weekday evening before our class meets (Monday-Thursday, 9:00pm to 10:00pm) where I am reachable by by AIM handle richardepattis. Piazza Q&A Messages: I have created a class on Piazza and started seven categories of Message Folders (see below). I prefer students ask questions in these Folders, so that everyone (staff and other students) can see the questions and everyone can participate in answering the questions (and exploring the answers). I expect students to read these Folders regularly to keep current on their discussions. Avoid duplicate posts: before posting, first check whether another student has already posted on that topic. When you do post a question, choose a clear, specific and descriptive title. Folder program (1-5): Ask/answer/discuss questions about the programming assignments: specification, relevant C++, etc. DO NOT post solutions or any code until after these programs are due, but feel free to ask about/discuss all other aspects of the programming assignments (including asking for clarification, input/output examples, etc: be specific). Folder quiz (1-8): Ask/answer/discuss questions about the quizzes (written and programming). DO NOT post solutions or any code until after these quizzes are due, but feel free to ask about/discuss all other aspects of the quizzes (including asking for clarification, input/output examples, etc: be specific). Folder c++_and_Clion: Ask/answer/discuss questions about the C++ Programming Language, the Clione Integrated Development Environment, or how to use them together. Folder lecture_material: Ask/answer/discuss questions about the readings and the materials discussed in class. Folder midterm: Ask/answer/discuss questions about the midterm exam. DO NOT post solutions or any code until after the midterm exam is finished, but feel free to ask about/discuss all other aspects of the midterm exam. Folder final: Ask/answer/discuss questions about the midterm exam. DO NOT post solutions or any code until after the final exam is finished, but feel free to ask about/discuss all other aspects of the final exam. Folder find_programming_partners: Find a programming partner. Relevant information is your Lab (partners should at least have labs meeting at the same time), approximate skill level (best to match with someone your own level), work habits (e.g., prefer to work days, evenings, weekends; do/don't want to work early to get extra for early submissions), preferred location to work (if your dorm/home, say where that is), ... Feel free to ask questions and answer other students' questions in these Folders (subject to the prohibition of posting code for programs, quizzes, and exams. I will read all Folders early every morning and answer all unresolved questions. Before you post a question, check whether that question has already been asked; if it hasn't, choose the Subject line carefully, so that any potential reader sees an overview of its contents. In past quarters, Piazza has seen a good amount of traffic: course material has been clarified, questions have been asked and answered, and many interesting discussions have ensued. But the efficacy of these discussions depends on your participation. If the need for other Folders arise, I will create them: feel free to suggest other Folders to me. Course Email: The instructor, staff, and all students registered for the course can send email to everyone else by emailing the address ics46b-F18@classes.uci.edu. All messages sent via this email address will be archived on the Email Archive As the instructor, I will frequently use this mechanism to broadcast timely information to all the students. Students should use this email address more selectively: mostly you should be using the Piazza Folders mentioned above to ask questions, so all students can see your questions/comments and participate in the discussion. One reasonable student use of this email list is to send email if Checkmate (the program submission system) appears to be down; by sending class email on this topic, I will learn about the problem, other students in the class will learn about the proble, and everyone will know I know about the problem. In such a case (when I bring Checkmate back up), I'll send a follow-up email message to everyone. Finally, remember to read the Announcements link daily, on the course web; I tend to post long-lived information here, rather than via Piazza or email. Lecture/Lab Meeting Places and Times: (see Andrew Chio for Googletest regrading) Lecture/Lab(s) Classroom Staff Days Start Stop Lecture EH 1200 Rich Pattis MWF 11:00 am 11:50 am Common Lab 1 ICS2 100 Dokyung Song MW 12:00 pm 2:00 pm Common Lab 2 ICS2 100 Chenhao Li MW 2:00 pm 4:00 pm Common Lab 3 ICS2 100 Michelle Nguyen MW 4:00 pm 6:00 pm Common Lab 4 ICS2 100 Andrew Chio MW 6:00 pm 8:00 pm Common Lab 5 ICS2 100 Xiaoyin Chen TuTh 10:00 am 12:00 pm Common Lab 6 ICS2 100 Bryant Gunaman TuTh 12:00 pm 2:00 pm Common Lab 7 ICS2 100 Joshua Tavassolkhah TuTh 2:00 pm 4:00 pm Common Lab 8 ICS2 100 Cancelled TuTh 4:00 pm 6:00 pm Common Lab 9 ICS2 100 Carlos David Puentes II TuTh 6:00 pm 8:00 pm Common Lab 8 ICS2 100 Arda Unal F 12:00 pm 4:00 pm It is well known (but often underappreciated) fact that consistent attendence of lectures labs is strongly correlated with good course performance; therefore, I expect all my students to attend lectures regularly. Plan on arriving punctually -I may make important announcements at the start of a class- paying attention, and treating your classmates with respect. If you do miss a class, your first point of contact should be other students who attended the class to determine what you missed and how you can catch up (see the course web too). One of the most "bewildering" questions faculty hear is, "I missed class yesterday; did you say or do anything important?" Bottom Line As a lecturer at UCI, my primary responsiblity is teaching; my primary activities are preparing course materials, teaching in class, interacting with students (in class, during office hours, on Piazza) and grading.