18881
www.ics.uci.edu/~pattis/common/handouts/pythoneclipsejava/eclipsepython
Eclipse Download and Installation Instructions Eclipse Download and Installation (for Python) Instructions Install Python and Java before installing Eclipse. You may want to print these instructions before proceeding, so that you can refer to them while downloading and installing Eclipse. Or, just keep this document in your browser. You should read each step completely before performing the action that it describes. This document shows downloading and installing Eclipse (Photon) on Windows 7 in Summer 2018. You should download and install the latest version of Eclipse. The current latest (as of Winter 2019) is Eclipse 2018-12. Remember that you must install Java, Python, and Eclipse as all 32-bit or all 64-bit. I recommend using the 32-bit verisons for each. Eclipse: (Photon) The Eclipse download requires about 320 MB of disk space; keep it on your machine, in case you need to re-install Eclipse. When installed, Eclipse requires an additional 350 MB of disk space. Downloading Click Eclipse The following page will appear in your browser. In this handout we will download Eclipse IDE for Eclipse Committers for Windows 32 Bit; if your computer uses Windows, continue below; otherwise choose either Mac Cocoa or Linux instead. It is critical that Java, Python, and Eclipse are either all 32 Bit or are all 64 Bit (and the, only if your Machine/OS supports 64 Bit): I think it easiest to use 32 Bit for everything. Click the 32-Bit (after Windows) to the right of the Eclipse IDE for Eclipse Committers; this version may appear on the top of the list, or may appear further down. You will see the following page (don't worry about the name of the institution underneath the orange DOWNLOAD button). Click the orange DOWNLOAD button. The site named here, beneath the button: United States - OSU Opoen Source Lab (http) is the random one chosen by the download page this time; yours may differ. This file should start downloading in your standard download folder, while showing a splash screen about donating to Eclipse. This file is about 320 Mb so it might take a while to download fully if you are on a slow internet connection (it took me about 5 minutes over a cable modem). Don't worry about the exact time as long as the download continues to make steady progress. In Chrome progress is shown on the bottom-left of the window, via the icon The file should appear as Terminate the tab browsing this webpage. Move this file to a more permanent location, so that you can install Eclipse (and reinstall it later, if necessary). Start the Installing instructions directly below. Installing (for Python) Python and Java should be installed before installing Eclipse Unzip eclipse-committers-photon-win32.zip, the file that you just downloaded and moved. On my machine (running Windows 7), I can Right-click the file. Hover over the IZArc command from the menu of options. Click Extract Here If you do not have IZArc or an equivalent unzipping program, here is the web site to download a free copy of IZarc. Unzipping this file creates a folder named eclipse; unzipping 250 MB can take a few minutes. You can leave this folder here or move it elsewhere on your hard disk. I recommend putting the downloaded file and resulting folder in the C:\Program Files\ directory. Create a shortcut on your desktop to the eclipse.exe file in this eclipse folder: On most Windows machines, you can Right-press the file eclipse.exe Drag it to the desktop. Release the right button. Click Create shortcut here Now you are ready to perform a one-time only setup of Eclipse on your machine. Double-click the shortcut to Eclipse that you just created above. The following splash screen will appear and then an Eclipse Launcher pop-up window will appear. In the Workspace text box, your name should appear between C:\Users\ and \eclipse-workspace, instead of Pattis. Leave unchecked the Use this as the default and do not ask again box. Although you will use this same workspace for the entire quarter (checking projects in and out of it), it is best to see this Workspace Launcher pop-up window each time you start Eclipse, to remind you where your workspace is located. In fact, it is a good idea to create on your desktop a shortcut to your workspace folder; but you must click OK (see below) before Eclipse creates this folder and you can create a shortcut to it. Click Launch. If you have an older version of Eclipse installed, the following pop-up window will apperar. In this pop-up window appears, click Continue to update the workspace for the newer version of Eclipse. Progress bars will appear as Eclipse loads. Eventually the Eclipse workbench will appear with a Welcome tab covering it. Terminate (click X on) the Welcome tab. You will not see the Welcome tab when you start Eclipse again, after this first time. Click Help (on the far right of the line below this window's blue title eclipse-workspace - Eclipse) and then click Install New Software... in its pull-down menu, as shown below. The Install pop-up window will appear. Enter the text (or cut/paste from this document) http://pydev.org/updates into the Work with text box and press Enter (if that doesn't work, try http://www.pydev.org/updates). In a few seconds the information under Name should change from There is no site selected to Pending to Select only the top PyDev checkbox; do NOT select the PyDev Mylyn Integration (optional) box. Check before proceeding that the Install pop-up window appears as Click Next > A new Install pop-up window will appear. Click Next > A new Install pop-up window will appear. Select the I accept the terms of the license agreement radio button, so the window appears as Click Finish The lower right-hand corner of the eclipse-workspace - Eclipse window will show the various operations it is performing and a progress bar for each one. Because the installer is fetching various files online, this process might take a few minutes. If you see a Security Warning pop-up window Click Install anyway. The installation will finish (the progress bar will disappear). A Software Updates pop-up window will appear. Click Restart Now Eclipse will terminate and restart. As you did in step 4, terminate (click OK on) the Welcome Tab. Click Window (to the left of Help on the far right of the line below this window's blue title eclipse-workspace - Eclipse) and then click Preferences in its pull-down menu, as shown below. Drill down to select the interpreter: Disclose PyDev by clicking the + in front of PyDev or double-clicking PyDev (after the +); the + changes to a -. Disclose Interpreters by clicking the + in front of Interpreters or double-clicking Interpreters (after the +); the + changes to a -. Select/Click Python - Interpreter. The Preferences pop-up window should appear as follows Click New... at the top-right of the top window A Select Interpreter pop-up window appears. Click Browse and the Open pop-up window should show you the folder in which Python was installed (here Python 37-32). If it doesn't, navigate to that folder. Double-click python.exe (or select it and click Open). Change the Interpreter Name in the Select Interpreter pop-up window to be simply Python37 (or whatever the latest version of Python you have installed). The Select Interpreter pop-up window should appear as Click OK. A Selection needed pop-up window will appear. Your window should have all four of these checkboxes checked. Click OK. Click the Libraries tab (2nd one) above the lower pane. The Preferences pop-up window will appear as Actually, on my system I had to first enlarge the Location tab, so that I could see the entire path to the Python interpreter. Click Apply and Close. A Progress Information pop-up window will appear. During installation, it will show the various operations it is performing and a progress bar for each one. Eventually the installation will terminate. If the following pop-up window appears Ensure the "Public networks, such as those in airports...." checkbox is NOT checked, and then click Allow Access. Click Window (to the left of Help on the far right of the line below this window's blue title eclipse-workspace - Eclipse), hover over Perspective then Open Perspective in the pull-down menu and then click Other... in the next pull-down menu. The Open Perspective pop-up window will appear. Double-click PyDev (fourth from the bottom) The Package Explorer in the upper-left tab will change to PyDev Package Explorer, and a Python icon will appear to the right of the Java icon (on the far right). Right-click the Java icon to the left of the PyDev icon and select close The Eclipse workbench will now have only the PyDev icon here and will look like Locate the workspace folder created in step 3 (see C:\Users\yourname\eclipse-workspace) and download the courselib.zip file into this workspace and unzip it there, producing the courselib folder; it should should contain a bunch of Python module files (ending in .py). From time to time you may be asked to put other course-specific Python module files into this courselib folder; these modules will be usable (via import) in all Python projects in Eclipse. Inform Eclipse to use the courselib folder in all Python projects. Select Window | Preferences. Disclose PyDev by clicking the + in front of PyDev or double-clicking PyDev (after the +); the + changes to a -. Disclose Interpreters by clicking the + in front of Interpreters or double-clicking Interpreters (after the +); the + changes to a -. Select Python - Interpreter. Click the Libraries tab (2nd above the bottom pane). Click the New Folder button (topmost, right of the bottom pane). Browse to the courselib folder (added above) in the Browse for Folder pop-up window (C:\Users\yourname\eclipse-workspace\courselib). Click the courselib folder selected, and then click SelectFolder. Notice a fifth entry (C:\Users\yourname\eclipse-workspace\courselib>) appears in the bottom-right pane named System PYTHONPATH. Reorder with Drag & Drop. Click Apply (you will see some progress bars). The pop-up window should now appear as Cick Apply and Close. Terminate (click X on) the Eclipse window. Eclipse is now installed for Python.