18883
www.ics.uci.edu/~pattis/common/handouts/pythoneclipsejava/python
Python Download and Installation Instructions Python Download and Installation Instructions You may want to print these instructions before proceeding, so that you can refer to them while downloading and installing Python. Or, just keep this document in your browser. You should read each step completely before performing the action that it describes. This document shows downloading and installing Python 3.7.0 on Windows 7 in Summer 2018. You should download and install the latest version of Python. The current latest (as of Winter 2019) is Python 3.7.2. Remember that you must install Java, Python, and Eclipse as all 32-bit or all 64-bit. I recommend using the 32-bit verisons for each. Python: Version 3.7.0 The Python download requires about 25 Mb of disk space; keep it on your machine, in case you need to re-install Python. When installed, Python requires about an additional 90 Mb of disk space. Downloading Click Python Download. The following page will appear in your browser. Click the Download Python 3.7.0 button. The file named python-3.7.0.exe should start downloading into your standard download folder. This file is about 30 Mb so it might take a while to download fully if you are on a slow internet connection (it took me about 10 seconds over a cable modem). The file should appear as Move this file to a more permanent location, so that you can install Python (and reinstall it easily later, if necessary). Feel free to explore this webpage further; if you want to just continue the installation, you can terminate the tab browsing this webpage. Start the Installing instructions directly below. Installing Double-click the icon labeling the file python-3.7.0.exe. An Open File - Security Warning pop-up window will appear. Click Run. A Python 3.7.0 (32-bit) Setup pop-up window will appear. Ensure that the Install launcher for all users (recommended) and the Add Python 3.7 to PATH checkboxes at the bottom are checked. If the Python Installer finds an earlier version of Python installed on your computer, the Install Now message may instead appear as Upgrade Now (and the checkboxes will not appear). Highlight the Install Now (or Upgrade Now) message, and then click it. A User Account Conrol pop-up window will appear, posing the question Do you want the allow the following program to make changes to this computer? Click the Yes button. A new Python 3.7.0 (32-bit) Setup pop-up window will appear with a Setup Progress message and a progress bar. During installation, it will show the various components it is installing and move the progress bar towards completion. Soon, a new Python 3.7.0 (32-bit) Setup pop-up window will appear with a Setup was successfuly message. Click the Close button. Python should now be installed. Verifying To try to verify installation, Navigate to the directory C:\Users\Pattis\AppData\Local\Programs\Python\Python37-32 (or to whatever directory Python was installed: see the pop-up window for Installing step 3). Double-click the icon/file python.exe. The following pop-up window will appear. A pop-up window with the title C:\Users\Pattis\AppData\Local\Programs\Python\Python37-32 appears, and inside the window; on the first line is the text Python 3.7.0 ... (notice that it should also say 32 bit). Inside the window, at the bottom left, is the prompt >>>: type exit() to this prompt and press enter to terminate Python. You should keep the file python-3.7.0.exe somewhere on your computer in case you need to reinstall Python (not likely necessary). You may now follow the instructions to download and install Java (you should have already installed Java, but if you haven't, it is OK to do so now, so long as you install both Python and Java before you install Eclipse), and then follows the instruction to download and install the Eclipse IDE. Note: you you need to download/install Java even if you are using Eclipse only for Python)