18882
www.ics.uci.edu/~pattis/common/handouts/pythoneclipsejava/java
Java Download and Installation Instructions Java Download and Installation Instructions You may want to print these instructions before proceeding, so that you can refer to them while downloading and installing Java. Or, just keep this document in your browser. You should read each step completely before performing the action that it describes. This document shows downloading and installing Java 8 update 144 on Windows 7 in Summer 2017. You should download and install the latest version of Java. The current latest (as of Winter 2019) is Javal 8 update 191. Remember that you must install Java, Python, and Eclipse as all 32-bit or all 64-bit. I recommend using the 32-bit verisons for each. Java The following instructions were composed for installing Sun Java 1.8.0_144 (aka Java SE Development Kit (JDK) 8, Update 144). The version you download may be newer. The current is Version 8 Update 144. The Java download requires about 56 MB of disk space; keep it on your machine, in case you need to reinstall Java. When installed, Java requires about an additional 160 MB of disk space. You need to install Java, Python, and Eclipse, all verision muyst be 32-bit or all versions must be 64-bit. I have used 32-bit versions in all my web pages and I suggest that you do too. Downloading Click Java Downloads. The following page will appear in your browser. Click the second red-bulleted item Windows Offline. This is the 32-bit edition (the 64-bit edition is below it, third). This file should start downloading into your standard download folder. This file is about 65 Mb, so it may take a few minutes to download. The file should appear as Terminate the window browsing the Java download page. Move this file to a more permanent location, so that you can install Java (and reinstall it later, if necessary). Start the Installing instructions directly below. Installing Double click the jre-8u144-windows-i586.exe file that you just downloaded and moved. In a few seconds a pop-up window titled User Account Control will appear, posing the question Do you want the following program to install software on this computer? Click the Yes button. A Java Setup - Welcome pop-up window will appear. Click the Install > button. A Java Setup - Progress pop-up window will appear, with the following message at the top of the window: Status: Installing Java A green progress bar will appear, showing the progress as it installs Java, and will finally disappear (on my machine this took about 30 seconds). If an Java Setup - Uninstall out-of-date versions pop-up window appears Click the Uninstall > button; if you are concerned that other software you have may need an older verison of Java, click the Remind me Later. You may want to click the More information link, which recommends uninstalling older versions of Java. I unsintalled two out-of-date versions, and the following Java Setup - Complete pop-up window appeared. I Clicked Next. Eventually, a Java Setup - Complete pop-up window will appear. Click Close. A browser will appear, with a red Verify Java version button. Because of recent incompatabilities between Java and browsers, this test will typically not run correctly, so just terminate this browser. If you know how to bring up system prompt/cmd window, you can test the Java installation by typing java -version to the prompt and pressing the Enter key. It should show the following. After seeing this message (look for java version "1.8.0_144" on the line after the command) or an error message, type exit in the cmd.exe window and press the Enter key. The installed files are typically stored (in Windows) in the folder C:\Program Files (x86)\Java. Inside this folder should be the folder: jre1.8.0_144, which itself should contain a bin and lib folder, and some miscellaneous .txt and a Welcome.html file. You may now follow the instructions to download and install Python and then the Eclipse IDE.