18904
www.ics.uci.edu/~pattis/common/online33.html
Course Software: ICS-33 Course Software: ICS-33 Your computer must be able to access the internet to download these resources. Clicking a resource will typically launch its own browser window for viewing/downloading (leaving this window underneath). Downloads via the campus ethernet, DSL, and wireless connections are reasonably fast. Main Software: Java (to run Eclipse), Python, and Eclipse Please follow the instructions below to download and install the following three software packages, in the order given: technically you can install Java and Python in any order, but you must install both before Eclipse. Heads-up: You must install Java, Python, and Eclipse as all 32-bit or all 64-bit. I recommend using the 32-bit verisons for each on the PC and 64-bit versions for each on Mac (and other platforms). Instructions(Windows): Java Instructions(Windows): Python Instructions(Windows): Eclipse (for Python) Instructions(Mac): Java Instructions(Mac): Python Instructions(Mac): Eclipse (for Python) Alternative Instructions From RIT: Python and Eclipse/PyDev Instructions: Troubleshooting Java/Eclipse/Python Installation Programming and Debugging With Eclipse (for Python) Python Programming in the Eclipse IDE (Overview/Tutorial) Instructions for using Eclipse to develop Python programs. This document acts as an overview and tutorial for using Python in Eclipse. The Debugger Perspective in Eclipse A reference and tutorial on using the Debugger Perspective in Eclipse. It includes information about observing script variables, single stepping through code in scripts, and setting/clearing unconditional and conditional breakpoints. Standard Course Library After you have installed the software above (which will include instructions on how to create a courselib folder in your Eclipse workspace), download and unzip the following file, and copy all the .py files (Python modules) that it produces into the courselib folder in your Eclipse workspace. Download: courselib.zip Instructions: Course Library View: Documentation Python Software/Modules Repositories for Python on the web. View: Wikipedia List of Python Software View: Unofficial Windows Binaries for Python Extension Packages