19632
www.ics.uci.edu/~rasadi
Reza Asadi Reza Asadi Ph.D. Candidate in Computer Science at University of California, Irvine Home Education Teaching and Coding Projects and Publications Work Experience . . . . . . About Me I received my B.Sc. degree in Computer Science at Amirkabir University, Iran, 2011. In my B.Sc. thesis, I worked on Data Mining Query Language in SQL Server. I received my M.Sc. degree in Computer Science at Amirkabir University, Iran, 2013. In my M.Sc thesis, I worked on developing a framework for Decision Tree based rule induction sysmte using Neural Networks in transportation safety prediction. I started my PhD study in Computer Science at University of California Irvine, 2014. My research interests fall in the broad areas of machine learning problems, including convex optimization algorithms, multi-variate time series forecasting, and deep neural networks. Download CV Contact address: rasadi [at] uci [dot] edu or LinkedIn . My Specialty My Skills Python 100% Java 100% c++ 75% AWS 75% Education PhD in Computer Science Thesis:"Deep Learning Mod-els for Spatio-Temporal Data Forecasting and Analysis" GPA:3.9/4.0 Master of Science Degree in Computer Science Amirkabir University, Iran, 2011-2013 Research Areas: Machine Learning in Transportation Problems Thesis: A Decision Tree based Rule induction System for Transportation Safety Prediction. Bachelor of Science Degree in Computer Science Amirkabir University, Iran, 2007-2011 Research Areas: Search Engine Optimization and Data Mining Thesis: A Data Mining QueryLanguage API for SQL Serve Experiences, Publications and Projects A rule-based Decision Support System in Intelligent Hazmat Transportation Systems We investigate the rule extraction methods from decision tree and illustrate the outperformance of Neural Networks as an inference engine to improve traffic safety prediction. The model is proposed in a framework of a decision support system for Intelligent Transportation Systems. The results is published in here . Spatial-temporal multi-variate traffic flow forecasting via Deep ConvolutionalRecurrent Framework A deep learning framework for traffic flow forecasting is proposed. The model is proposed based on characteristics of multi-variate time series data gathered in large scale network. A Deep learning model for stock market prediction via daily news Daily news has an impact on stock market prediction problem. We developed a deep learning architecture which capture the effect of daily news along with stock market time series data, and apply natural language processing techniques on news data. The results is presented in here as a technical report. Distributed Convex Optimization for network flow problem We developed distributed optimization algorithm for optimal network flow problem, by reducing the number of decision variables using the graph theory. The model has a tremendous improvement compared with classifical optimal network flow methods. The results is published in here . Distributed second order algorithm for constraint quadratic programing We developed a consensus based optimization algorithm for fast convergence of constrained quadratic programming and apply on Economic Dispatch Problem. Work Experiences Data Scientist intern at Glidewell Laboratory, (Summer 2018) – Natural language processing and news recommendation – Elastic Search – Amazon SageMaker/ Python Data Scientist intern at HERE Technologies, (Summer 2017), – Time series classification – Deep learning for satellite imagery – AWS/Python/R programming Teaching Experiences Deep Learning and Neural network, Winter 2019, professor Baldi Artificial Intelligence, Fall 2018, Professor Kask Advanced Data Structure, Spring 2018, professor Dillencourt