20138
www.ics.uci.edu/~sjordan/courses/ics11/case_studies/staffer.html
Econ 11 / ICS 11 Case Studies Scott Jordan Department of Computer Science University of California, Irvine Econ 11 / ICS 11 Case Studies ==== If your group is a Staffer ==== At least 14 days before your presentation: Contact your group-mates and create a plan. Read the case materials. Make sure you understand who you represent, what the issue is, and what the "pro" and "con" positions mean. Initial Report (see course homepage for due date): You are working for a member of the United States Senate or the FCC. Your group should decide which Senator or FCC Commissioner you are working for. Your job is to recommend how your Senator or FCC Commissioner should vote. Your initial report should be approximately 3 pages, and should consist of the following: Explain who you represent, and what their beliefs are. (Item #1 on law slide #13.) Explain the issue. What is the root problem? Is there a market failure? What does the "pro" position mean? What does the "con" position mean? (Item #2 on law slide #13.) A proposed schedule for what each group member will do, how you will communicate with each other, and when you will integrate each member's work. You should not yet present arguments for either position. Turn in the initial report by 10pm on the due date (see course homepage for due date). Only one member of your group should do the following: Convert your initial report to PDF. Rename the file to include your group number, e.g. Group3StafferInitialReport. Post the report on gradescope.com in the Staffer Initial Report assignment. Make sure to add your group-mates to the assignment in gradescope. Interim Report (see course homepage for due date): After you complete your initial report, you should spent the next week learning about the issue and deciding what outcome you would like. Your interim report should be approximately 4-6 pages, and should consist of the following: Summarize what you have learned about the issue. (Item #3 on law slide #13.) Summarize the networking elements of the issue. Summarize the economics elements of the issue. Summarize the public policy elements of the issue. Explain the public policy options that you considered. (Item #4 on law slide 14.) Explain which public policy option you choose, and why. (Item #5 on law slide 14.) A bibliography of your information sources. For each information source, please include the following if available: Author of the document. Title of the document (e.g. article title or web page title). Venue where the document was published (e.g. journal, conference, magazine, publisher, name of website). Where to find the document within the venue (e.g. volume number and page number, or path within webpage sitemap), if available. Date written; for webpages without a date written include the date accessed. URL, if available. This should be the direct URL provided by the venue, not the URL used through a search engine or abstracting service. Any material taken directly from a source must be placed in quotes and cited with the corresponding source designation, e.g. Jordan [1] argues "blah blah blah". Turn in the interim report by 10pm on the due date (see course homepage for due date). Only one member of your group should do the following: Convert your interim report to PDF. Rename the file to include your group number, e.g. Group3StafferInterimReport. Post the report on gradescope.com in the Staffer Interim Report assignment. Make sure to add your group-mates to the assignment in gradescope. Prepare your Presentation and Final Report: After you complete your interim report, you should spent the remaining time preparing a presentation of your recommendation. Analyze the arguments made by the lobbyists: Before you start your analysis, you must first understand who the various lobbyists are and what positions they support. You should already have read various lobbyist arguments based on case study materials. Analyze the arguments made by pro and con sides. Create a clear recommendation: Think about whether your group likes the "pro" and/or "con" positions. If you are working for a Senator, think about what is good for the constituents of the Senator or you are working for; this includes both the people and the companies in your district. If you are working for a FCC Commissioner, think about what is in the public interest. Also think about your Senator's or FCC Commissioner's political beliefs. See if you can find a different position than either "pro" or "con" that you like better. Decide as a group what your recommendation is. Sketch out what your position will be. Decide how to present your recommendation: Decide as a group how to present this to your Senator or FCC Commissioner. (Item #6 on law slide 15.) Make sure to bring in course concepts from both economics and networking to support your position. This is critical and example concepts will be listed on each case study page. Make sure you get your facts correct. Create your presentation: Decide as a group what should go into the presentation, and in what order. (Item #7 on law slide 15.) You will have 8 minutes to present, so a rough guideline is that you should have approximately 8-10 slides (not including the title slide). You will not have nearly enough time to present everything you have learned. Therefore, you should decide what you think is the most important information for your classmates. Create your slides. Fine-tune your presentation based on the lobbyist presentations: Attend and listen to the presentations made by the lobbyists in class. The day after the lobbyist presentations, review their presentation slides, which you can download from the Econ 11 / ICS 11 Canvas Files. Decide what you believe and don't believe about these arguments. Review and practice your presentation: Review all of the slides your group created. Revise your decision about what should go into the presentation, and in what order, to make the presentation most effective. Practice giving the presentation out loud, refine your timing, and decide how you will communicate with each presenter during the presenation to keep to the agreed upon timing. Create your Final Report: Use your interim report as a starting point. Edit as you see fit, based on your work since you turned in the interim report. Add a summary of the verbal comments you made during your presentation. The Final Report should be approximately 8-10 pages. The day of your presentation: Before the class, upload your presentation to somewhere where you can very quickly retrieve it in class. You must use the computer in the classroom. During the first 50 minutes of class, your group will present your recommendation to the class. You can share the 9 minutes among your group however you desire. During the last 30 minutes of class, your group will answer questions posed by Reporters. The evening after your presentation: Turn in your presentation slides by 10pm. Only one member of your group should do the following: Convert your draft slides to PDF. Rename the file to include your group number, e.g. Group3StafferSlides. Post the slides on gradescope.com in the Staffer Slides assignment. The day after your presentation: Turn in your Final Report by 10pm. You must turn in the report to both turnitin.com and gradescope.com. Only one member of your group should do the following: Turninit.com: One person in your group must enroll in the Econ 11 / ICS 11 class in turnitin.com. The website offers a quick start guide as well as more detailed instructions. You will need to create an account and enroll in the class turnitin account. The class id is 20950986 and the enrollment password is "policy". Post the report to turnitin.com. When uploading your report, for the title use the file name, e.g. Group3StafferFinalReport. After you have submitted the report, wait a minute or two for turnitin to produce a Similarity Report. Then view the Similarity Report. If the Similarity Report shows any significant problems (e.g. if the icon for the Similarity Report is yellow or red), then consider revising your report and repeating this step. Gradescope.com: Convert your report to PDF. Rename the file to include your group number, e.g. Group3StafferFinalReport. Post the report on gradescope.com in the Staffer Final Report assignment. Make sure to add your group-mates to the assignment in gradescope. Each student in the group must fill out a Staffer Peer Grading Survey. Grading: Presentation: networking arguments: 20 points economics arguments: 20 points public policy arguments: 10 points presentation skills (slide order, slide content, verbal comments): 15 points timing (how close to the time limit was your presentation?): 5 points Final Report: summary of networking elements: 7.5 points summary of economics elements: 7.5 points summary of public policy elements: 5 points list of public policy options & explanation of chosen public policy option: 10 points Scott Jordan UCI • CS • Networked Systems