20135
www.ics.uci.edu/~sjordan/courses/ics11/case_studies/lobbyist.html
Econ 11 / ICS 11 Case Studies Scott Jordan Department of Computer Science University of California, Irvine Econ 11 / ICS 11 Case Studies ==== If your group is a Lobbyist ==== At least 14 days before your presentation: Contact your group-mates and create a plan. Read the case materials. Make sure you understand who you represent, what the issue is, and what the "pro" and "con" positions mean. Initial Report (see course homepage for due date): You are working for an organization that is lobbying the United States Senate or the FCC on the issue. You have been assigned both a position (pro or con) and a lobbying organization. Your job is to convince the Senate or the FCC to vote on your side. Your initial report should be approximately 3 pages, and should consist of the following: Explain who you represent, and what their interests are. (Item #1 on law slide #10.) Explain who the other lobbyists represent, and what their interests are. Explain the issue. What is the root problem? Is there a market failure? What does the "pro" position mean? What does the "con" position mean? (Item #2 on law slide #10.) A proposed schedule for what each group member will do, how you will communicate with each other, and when you will integrate each member's work. You should not yet present arguments for either position. Turn in the initial report by 10pm on the due date (see course homepage for due date). Only one member of your group should do the following: Convert your initial report to PDF. Rename the file to include your group number, e.g. Group3LobbyistInitialReport. Post the report on gradescope.com in the Lobbyist Initial Report assignment. Make sure to add your group-mates to the assignment in gradescope. Interim Report (see course homepage for due date): After you complete your initial report, you should spent the next week learning about the issue and deciding what outcome you would like. Your interim report should be approximately 4-6 pages, and should consist of the following: Summarize what you have learned about the issue. (Item #3 on law slide #10.) Summarize the networking elements of the issue. Summarize the economics elements of the issue. Summarize the public policy elements of the issue. Explain the public policy options that you considered, and that support your position. (Item #4 on law slide 11.) Explain which public policy option you choose, and why. (Item #5 on law slide 11.) A bibliography of your information sources. For each information source, please include the following if available: Author of the document. Title of the document (e.g. article title or web page title). Venue where the document was published (e.g. journal, conference, magazine, publisher, name of website). Where to find the document within the venue (e.g. volume number and page number, or path within webpage sitemap), if available. Date written; for webpages without a date written include the date accessed. URL, if available. This should be the direct URL provided by the venue, not the URL used through a search engine or abstracting service. Any material taken directly from a source must be placed in quotes and cited with the corresponding source designation, e.g. Jordan [1] argues "blah blah blah". Turn in the interim report by 10pm on the due date (see course homepage for due date). Only one member of your group should do the following: Convert your interim report to PDF. Rename the file to include your group number, e.g. Group3LobbyistInterimReport. Post the report on gradescope.com in the Lobbyist Interim Report assignment. Make sure to add your group-mates to the assignment in gradescope. Prepare your Presentation and Final Report: After you complete your interim report, you should spent the remaining time preparing a presentation of your strongest arguments. You will make arguments either for or against the case study position, according to what you position you were assigned. Create your strongest arguments: Decide as a group what your strongest arguments are, and how to convince those in power. (Item #6 on law slide 12.) Make sure to bring in course concepts from both economics and networking to support your position. This is critical and example concepts will be listed on each case study page. Make sure you get your facts correct. Create your presentation: Decide as a group what should go into the presentation, and in what order. (Item #7 on law slide 12.) You will have 8 minutes to present, so a rough guideline is that you should have approximately 8-10 slides (not including the title slide). You will not have nearly enough time to present everything you have learned. Therefore, you should decide what you think is the most important information for your classmates. Create your slides. Review and practice your presentation: Review all of the slides your group created. Revise your decision about what should go into the presentation, and in what order, to make the presentation most effective. Practice giving the presentation out loud, refine your timing, and decide how you will communicate with each presenter during the presenation to keep to the agreed upon timing. Prepare for the debate: Make sure you understand what type of lobbyists are on the other side of the issue. Prepare a list of at least 4 questions that you may ask an opposing lobbyist team. Each question should take no longer than 30 seconds to ask. Although you will only argue your side of the issue, you should understand what arguments the opposing side might make. Create your Final Report: Use your interim report as a starting point. Edit as you see fit, based on your work since you turned in the interim report. Add a summary of the verbal arguments you made during your presentation. The Final Report should be approximately 8-10 pages. The day of your presentation: Before the class, upload your presentation to somewhere where you can very quickly retrieve it in class. You must use the computer in the classroom. During the first 50 minutes of class, your group will present your arguments to the class. You can share the 8 minutes among your group however you desire. During the last 30 minutes of class, your group will debate the topic with other lobbyist groups. Your group will be called on to ask several questions, and to answer several questions. Each question should take no longer than 30 seconds to ask. Each answer should take no longer than 60 seconds. You should rotate among members of your group in asking and answering questions. Decide how you will do this beforehand. The evening after your presentation: Turn in your presentation slides by 10pm. Only one member of your group should do the following: Convert your draft slides to PDF. Rename the file to include your group number, e.g. Group3LobbyistSlides. Post the slides on gradescope.com in the Lobbyist Slides assignment. The day after your presentation: Turn in your Final Report by 10pm. You must turn in the report to both turnitin.com and gradescope.com. Only one member of your group should do the following: Turninit.com: One person in your group must enroll in the Econ 11 / ICS 11 class in turnitin.com. The website offers a quick start guide as well as more detailed instructions. You will need to create an account and enroll in the class turnitin account. The class id is 20950986 and the enrollment password is "policy". Post the report to turnitin.com. When uploading your report, for the title use the file name, e.g. Group3LobbyistFinalReport. After you have submitted the report, wait a minute or two for turnitin to produce a Similarity Report. Then view the Similarity Report. If the Similarity Report shows any significant problems (e.g. if the icon for the Similarity Report is yellow or red), then consider revising your report and repeating this step. Gradescope.com: Convert your report to PDF. Rename the file to include your group number, e.g. Group3LobbyistFinalReport. Post the report on gradescope.com in the Lobbyist Final Report assignment. Make sure to add your group-mates to the assignment in gradescope. Each student in the group must fill out a Lobbyist Peer Grading Survey. Grading: Presentation: networking arguments: 20 points economics arguments: 20 points public policy arguments: 10 points presentation skills (slide order, slide content, verbal comments): 15 points timing (how close to the time limit was your presentation?): 5 points Final Report: summary of networking elements: 10 points summary of economics elements: 10 points summary of public policy elements: 10 points Scott Jordan UCI • CS • Networked Systems