20158
www.ics.uci.edu/~smyth/courses/cs175
CS 175 | Winter 2018 CS 175: Project in Artificial Intelligence, Winter 2018 General Information Time: Monday and Wednesday, 5:00 to 6:20pm Location: ICS 174 Instructor: Professor Padhraic Smyth, Office Hours: Fridays, 9:30 to 11:30, DBH 4216 Teaching Assistant: Eric Nalisnick, Office Hours: Thursdays, 1 to 3pm, location TBD Weekly Schedule Software Links to software relevant to this class Lecture slides (will be made available for to each lecture) Questions? please use the Piazza class Website for class-related questions and discussion Course Description: Students in this project class will work in 2 to 3 person teams to develop artificial intelligence and machine learning algorithms and apply them to a range of different problems related to natural language and text analysis. These problems can include, for example, document classification and clustering, sentiment analysis, dialog/chatbot systems, information extraction, word prediction, text synthesis, question-answering systems, and so on. Projects can make use of real-world publicly-available data from sources such as Twitter, Wikipedia, Reddit, news articles, product and movie reviews, email data sets, the US patent database, and more. Piazza Class Website: We will use Piazza for questions, online discussion, announcements, etc. Please use the Piazza class forum as your first option for asking questions outside of class or office hours. Please also feel free to answer other students' questions, to initiate discussions on project-related topics, etc. To communicate directly with only the instructor you can send a private message to the instructor within Piazza. Textbooks These online texts will provide very useful starting points and background material for your projects Links to Project Resources Links to Tutorial Articles for possible Projects Links to Possible Data Sets for Projects Links to Software and Demos for Text Analysis Assignments Assignment 1. Due Wednesday January 17th, 5pm. Assignment 2. Due Wednesday January 24th, 5pm Project Proposal. Due Friday February 2nd, 6pm Project Progress Report. Due 11:45pm Friday February 23rd Project Final Report. Due at 12 noon on Tuesday March 20th. Grading Policy Final grades will be based on the following weighted combination: 20% for Assignments 1 and 2 (10% each) 20% for Project Proposal 20% for Project Progress Report 10% for in-class Project Presentations 30% for Final Project Report Academic Integrity Please read the guidelines on academic integrity below. Academic integrity is taken seriously in this class. Failure to adhere to the policies below can result in a student receiving a failing grade in the class. For assignments you are allowed to discuss the assignments verbally with other class members, but you are not allowed to look at or to copy anyone else's written solutions or code. All problem solutions and code submitted must be material you have personally written during this quarter, except for any standard library or utility functions. For class projects all reports submitted must be written by you or members of your project team. Code generated for class projects can be a combination of code written by team members and publicly-available code. You should clearly indicate in your reports and in your code documentation which parts of your code was written by you or your team and which parts of your code was written by others. It is the responsibility of each student to be familiar with UCI's Academic Integrity Policies and UCI's definitions and examples of academic misconduct.