20185
www.ics.uci.edu/~smyth/projects.html
Research Projects | Padhraic Smyth Close × Publications DataLab Group Research Projects Short Biography CV Contact ☰ Current and Recent Research Projects in the Smyth DataLab Group Projects in our research group span a variety of topics involving fundamental research on basic aspects of machine learning, including predictive modeling, deep learning, Bayesian methods, time-series and sequence modeling, image and spatial data analysis, text analysis, and more. Our group has a long and successful history of developing new ideas and algorithms that lie at the intersection of machine learning and statistics. We are also involved in numerous applications, working with expert collaborators to apply machine learning and statistical techniques to address real-world problems across a variety of important application areas in medicine, science, engineering, the social sciences, and business. PhD students interested in joining our research group should apply to either the Computer Science or Statistics PhD programs at UC Irvine. Below are some examples of recent and current projects in our group. The list below is illustrative rather than exhaustive - we have broad interests in our research group and will typically be exploring new ideas and projects that are not listed below. Statistical and generative models in deep learning Developing new theories and techniques that bridge statistical ideas with methods from deep learning, such as Bayesian forecasting and online probabilistic calibration for deep neural networks. Funded by the National Science Foundation. Climate and environmental data analysis Spatio-temporal models for analyzing and predicting environmental and climate processes using satellite data related to precipitation, temperature, land-use, wildfires, and more. This is part of a NASA and NSF-funded collaboration with the Earth Systems Science Department and Civil and Environmental Engineering Departments at UCI, as well as University of Chicago and University of Wisconsin, Madison. Funded by NASA and the National Science Foundation. Machine learning techniques for medical diagnosis Developing new statistical machine learning methods for analysis of multivariate cell-level flow-cytometry data with applications to medical diagnosis. In collaboration with the J. Craig Venter Institute, UCSD, and Stanford University. Funded by the National Institutes of Health (NIH). Automated classification of human dialog with applications to healthcare Investigating sequential classification methods for detection of topics and emotions in patient-doctor dialog, using techniques such as topic models, hidden Markov models and recurrent neural networks. In collaboration with the University of Utah, University of Washington, and USC. Funded by the National Institutes of Health (NIH), PCORI, and SAP. Statistical modeling of behavioral event data Exploring new statistical models for analyzing time-series event data from digital devices such as mobile phones, using approaches such as marked point processes, with applications to fraud detection and digital forensics. Funded by the National Science Foundation and by gift funding from Adobe, Google, and Xerox. The digital forensics aspect of this project is part of the CSAFE consortium funded by the National Institute for Standards and Technology (NIST), in collaboration with researchers in statistics, computer science, and criminology at Carnegie Mellon University, Iowa State, and the University of Virginia. Machine learning for analysis of online education data Developing new machine learning methods that can extract useful information about student behavior from time-series clickstream data from student online activity. In collaboration with the Department of Education at UCI. Funded by the National Science Foundation.