20274
www.ics.uci.edu/~taewok2
Taewoo Kim's Homepage Taewoo Kim E-mail : taewok2 at uci dot edu LinkedIn Department of Computer Science University of California, Irvine Currently, I am a Postdoc at UC Irvine. Curriculum Vitae: Link Resume: Link Research Interests Big data management system, Big data visualization, memory management, query compilation and optimization, storage management, interactive analytics, text processing, and similarity search Current Projects Apache AsterixDB - Working on Apache AsterixDB (Big data management system) for 4 years and have been contributed 100K lines of codes. Topics include memory management, runtime operators, query optimization, transaction management (index-only plan), storage management, distributed data processing, and text processing (full-text and similarity query). Merged patch set Cloudberry - Cloudberry is a middleware that utilizes Apache AsterixDB as its backend to allow users to interactively query, analyze, and visualize large amounts of data with temporal, spatial, and textual dimensions. It can also support different database management systems. Past Projects iPubMed - an instant, error-tolerant search engine on the PubMed database Monitor - instant search analysis The goal of this research is to supplement instant search engine's performance without changing internal structure or data. This is done by embedding one JavaScript to original search engine. This JavaScript collects queries, number of result, etc. and stores that data to Server. Ranges of project are analysing user queries, Identifying sessions from queries, creating session related Statistics, and suggesting some useful queries to users by using log and raw-data. Publications Supporting Similarity Queries in Apache AsterixDB Taewoo Kim, Wenhai Li, Alexander Behm, Inci Cetindil, Rares Vernica, Vinayak Borkar, Michael J. Carey, and Chen Li EDBT 2018 Caching Geospatial Objects in Web Browsers Taewoo Kim, Vidhyasagar Thirumaraiselvan, Jianfeng Jia, and Chen Li ACM SIGSPATIAL 2017 (Demo paper) A Comparative Study of Log-Structured Merge-Tree-Based Spatial Indexes For Big Data Young-Seok Kim, Taewoo Kim, Michael Carey, and Chen Li ICDE 2017 (Poster) Twitter Coverage of Climate Change and Health before and after the 2016 US Presidential Election Suellen Hopfer, Miryha Runnerstrom, Jianfeng Jia, Taewoo Kim, and Chen Li American Public Health Association 2017 RILCA: Collecting and Analyzing User-Behavior Information in Instant Search Using Relational DBMS Taewoo Kim and Chen Li VLDB Workshop on Business Intelligence for the Real Time Enterprise (BIRTE) 2015 Efficient Instant-Fuzzy Search with Proximity Ranking. Inci Cetindil, Jamshid Esmaelnezhad, Taewoo Kim, and Chen Li ICDE 2014 . Last Update : 10/1/2018