20939
www.ics.uci.edu/~thornton/ics45c
ICS 45C Spring 2019 ICS 45C Spring 2019 | News | Course Reference | Schedule | Project Guide | Notes and Examples | Grade Calculator | About Alex ICS 45C Spring 2019 Course News Check back here every day or so. I will generally post important coursewide announcements here. They will be listed in reverse-chronological order (i.e., newest items first). Date Added News Item M 5/20 All remaining Notes and Examples are now available, along with a Schedule update that covers the remainder of the quarter. Th 5/16 As we talked about in lecture, the due date for Project #3 has been postponed until Monday, May 27. I'm aware that this is a holiday, but if you want to spend time on the project during the holiday weekned, you're certainly welcome to do so. Tu 5/7 Project #3 is now available. Sa 5/4 Several additional sets of Notes and Examples are now available, along with a Schedule update. Th 4/25 An implementation of the late policy was added to the Grade Calculator, along with support for multiple lectures of the same course (which will be important for us, if the two lectures end up with exams that have different numbers of points possible, which is not uncommon). W 4/17 Project #2 is now available. Th 4/11 A few more lab hours — these should be the last of them — have been added to the Course Reference. W 4/10 Additional lab hours have been added to the Course Reference. They begin immediately, as scheduled, once listed. M 4/8 Several new sets of Notes and Examples, a Schedule update, and Project #1 are all available. W 4/3 A couple of updates are available in the Course Reference: the location of office hours (which begin on Thursday, April 4) and dates/times of lab meetings (which begin on Friday, April 5). M 4/1 Welcome! Please note a couple of things as we get started this quarter: The first lecture will meet on Tuesday, April 2. There are no scheduled lab sections, but we will have informal lab meetings, which I expect will begin next week, with times and days to be announced. For more information about meeting times of lab meetings, see the Course Reference. For information about lecture material and readings, see the Schedule. I encourage you to spend some time reading through the material on the course web site. It will be updated periodically throughout the quarter, and there will always be an announcement here describing each update. For now, notice the set of links at the top of this (and every) page, leading you to the Course Reference, the Schedule, and the Project Guide, as well as a set of Notes and Examples — mostly emanating from the lectures — that will be posted throughout the quarter.