20940
www.ics.uci.edu/~thornton/ics45c/CourseReference.html
ICS 45C Spring 2019, Course Reference ICS 45C Spring 2019 | News | Course Reference | Schedule | Project Guide | Notes and Examples | Grade Calculator | About Alex ICS 45C: Programming in C++ as a Second Language Spring 2019 Course Reference Instructor information Alex Thornton Office: DBH 4048 (note that this is not where office hours are held; see below) Email: thornton@ics.uci.edu How best to contact me I tend to be much easier to reach via email than any other way, so I would suggest using email to contact me under normal circumstances. As it turns out, I'm not in my office all that often, but I am connected online quite a lot. When you write me an email, it's not a bad idea to be sure you're including enough contextual information in your email that I'll be able to answer the question: your name, your student ID#, and which course you're enrolled in are all good data points to include. Without things like this, it raises the likelihood that I won't understand the context of the question you're asking (e.g., "When is Project 1 due?" is a question that has a different answer in different courses of mine), which means we'll need an additional round trip to get the matter settled. Office hours I will be available on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 8:30-9:45pm in DBH 1423 — not my office, as it's in a building that will be locked during at least part of that time — during which I'm available to chat with you about whatever's on your mind. Office hours begin on Thursday, April 4 and continue throughout the quarter. You don't need an appointment to visit, and you can always assume that I will be there as scheduled unless you hear from me otherwise. Course staff In addition to me, this course is staffed by a number of folks in a few different roles. They are listed below. Teaching assistants There are two teaching assistants, who will share the duties of attending the lab meetings, will serve as an additional source of assistance on your projects, and will be the primary point of contact with regard to the grading of the projects. Arda Unal (unala AT uci DOT edu) Jessica Souza (jconceic AT uci DOT edu) Readers Additionally, we have three readers, who will be primarily tasked with grading projects. Ananya Hosabeedu Somappa (ahosabee AT uci DOT edu) Andy Thai (athai5 AT uci DOT edu) Karan Ramakrishnegowda (kramakr1 AT uci DOT edu) Lab tutors In addition to the TAs, the following lab tutors will also be staffing the labs at various times, specified further below. David Khachatryan Jiangtong Wang Susie Liu Vivian Luong Wesley Tsai Yilei Wu Times and places Lecture This course has two lectures and each of you is enrolled in one or the other. They meet on the following days and times: Tuesdays and Thursdays from 5:00-6:20pm in HSLH 100A Tuesdays and Thursdays from 6:30-7:50pm in HSLH 100A The lectures will be more or less the same — there may be slight differences, particularly on days after one lecture ends up a little ahead of the other (due to differences in questions asked, etc.). However, we do have a full house in at least one of them — the first lecture is enrolled up to the capacity of the room — so you are not permitted to attend a lecture other than the one in which you are enrolled. Given the course's size, attendance is not graded, but we certainly recommend it. Naturally, attendance is required on the days when exams are held, which are listed in the Schedule. It should be noted that you must attend the exams in the lecture in which you are officially enrolled. NO EXCEPTIONS. Lab meetings While there are no scheduled lab sections in this course, we will be offering informal lab meetings on a selection of days and times throughout the week. During these times, some combination of TAs and lab tutors will be available to help you as you work through your projects. C++ requires an attention to detail that is uncharacteristically high, even for programming, so it will be handy to have a place you can go to get help; keep this on your calendar. You're free to come and go as you'd like within that time; there are no "sections" or other formal arrangement, and you do not need an appointment to attend. Lab meetings are not a required part of the course, and nothing will be graded in the labs this quarter, but attendance does offer some significant benefits: You will have a chance to consult a TA and one or more lab tutors regarding your work; this kind of instant feedback and help can be invaluable as you work through your projects. You will be surrounded by a large group of other people facing the same problems that you're facing. This kind of shared journey will build a social network that will last you, in some cases, for the rest of your life. Don't squander that opportunity! The lab meetings begin on Friday, April 5. Times and locations are listed below: Days/Times Location TAs and/or Tutors MWF 11:00-11:50am ICS2 100 David Khachatryan MF 1:00-3:30pm ICS2 100 Jessica Souza (TA) MWF 3:00-3:50pm ICS2 100 Vivian Luong MWF 4:00-4:50pm ICS2 100 Yilei Wu M 5:00-6:20pm ICS2 100 Susie Liu TuTh 10:00-11:20am ICS2 100 Wesley Tsai TuTh 2:30-5:00pm ICS2 100 Arda Unal (TA) TuTh 3:30-4:50pm ICS2 100 Jiangtong Wang Th 5:00-6:20pm ICS2 100 Susie Liu Note that these lab meetings are laptop-only working spaces (i.e., they are not a computer lab with machines already present). Textbooks This course requires no textbook, as I will be providing a complete set of Notes and Examples covering every lecture this quarter. Note that you might find a book that complements the lecture material and helps you fill in details that you missed while listening to me speak for eighty minutes, though I think the Notes and Examples section will generally be enough information for you to succeed. If you prefer a book (or online supplements of your own choosing) other than what I'm providing, that's generally fine, though do be aware that style and approach among practitioners of a programming language tend to differ, particularly with respect to a language as large and complex as C++. We'll be expecting you to follow similar conventions to what we're learning about in this course. Obtaining additional assistance Asking questions of course staff You can most easily get course questions answered by coming to the lecture, the lab meetings, or office hours and asking them. I am happy to help you in person when I'm available. You can also ask questions by sending email to me or a TA (or both); we check our email frequently throughout the day, so you can usually get an answer to course-related questions within a few hours (and often much more quickly). If the questions require a complex or lengthy response, we may ask you to see one of us in person. As projects approach their due date, particularly on days when projects are due, we begin to receive quite a bit of email all at once, so we may not be able to respond to all messages before the project is due. We aren't ignoring you on purpose, but unfortunately it's not always possible for the relatively small course staff to answer questions from a large number of students at once. A great way to mitigate this problem is to get started early and ask questions sooner in the process. Accommodations for disabilities Any students who feel that they may need an accommodation based on the impact of a disability should contact me privately to discuss these specific needs. Also, contact the Disability Services Center online or by phone at (949) 824-7494 as soon as possible to better ensure that such accommodations, such as alternative test-taking environments or note-taking services, can be arranged for you in a timely way. Grading Weights of graded artifacts Your course grade will be determined from the weighted combination of your scores on each of six programming projects, one Midterm, and one Final Exam. The weights of each of these are: One "set-up" project, 2% Four projects, 40% (weighted equally at 10% each) Midterm, 25% Final Exam, 33% Determining final grades Course grades will be determined neither on a normal curve nor a straight scale. It is guaranteed that overall scores over 90% will receive an A- or better, scores over 80% will receive a B- or better, and scores over 70% will receive a C or better. However, the actual cutoffs may be lowered at the end of the quarter. In short, it is not my intention to fail half of the students, nor am I planning on giving only 2% of the students A's, but I prefer not to constrain myself with either a straight scale or a formalized curve. If you're curious about how you're doing in the course, I'm happy to discuss your estimated grade at any time. It's generally best to have this conversation in person, so that we can explore issues other than just the raw numbers; I'm happy to have this conversation at any time that I'm available, and I'm also glad to do it via email if we can't find a mutually available time. Dropping the course or changing grade option Through the end of Week 2 (Friday, April 12), you may drop the course by simply going to WebReg and dropping it. If you wish to drop the course after that date, you will need to use the Enrollment Exceptions system to request a drop; I do not have the final say over those, ultimately, as the Dean of the Bren School (and your major, if you are majoring in something outside of the Bren School) must approve them. It is not generally the case that an exception will be accepted simply because you're not doing well in a course, though extenuating circumstances are certainly considered. Similarly, changing your grade option (to Pass/NotPass or back again) can be done via WebReg through the end of Week 2 (Friday, April 12), after which you must use the Enrollment Exceptions system to request the change. As with exceptional drops, you must receive approval from the appropriate Deans. Academic honesty The policy As a student enrolled in ICS 45C, you are expected to know and follow the academic honesty policies of both the Bren School of ICS and the University as a whole. Please take a few minutes to read the policies, which can be found at this link. All of your project work is expected to be completed solely by you. Worker in larger groups and/or sharing of code between students is not permitted. Note that "high-level discussion of course material for better understanding" is permitted and encouraged, but when it comes time to sit down and write code, that is expected to be done by you and you alone. All submissions are compared to one another using an automated plagiarism detection system. This system is extraordinarily good at finding similarities between submissions, even when there are superficial differences. (Note that we also compare your submissions to those submitted during previous quarters whenever one of these assignments was given during a previous quarter, so it is an exceedingly bad idea to turn in, or even refer to, code written by a friend of yours who took the course already.) Since all of your work is expected to be completed solely by you, you will be held responsible even if you plagiarize only a small portion of someone else's work. Academic honesty is a two-way street. Providing your code to other students for them to turn in as their own is not permitted any more than turning in someone else's code. Resist the temptation to give code to your friends "for reference." Based on my experience, I can say that your "friends" may very well betray you and turn it in, anyway, and then you'll have a lot to answer for. Naturally, the Midterm and Final Exam are also expected to be individual efforts. Dishonest behavior during an exam will not be tolerated. All violations of academic honesty policies will be reported to the UCI Office of Academic Integity & Student Conduct (AISC) and will trigger an administrative procedure, which is described on their web site. Additionally (and at least as importantly), you can receive a course grade of F — as a number of students in my courses do, because of this issue, every quarter — without the option to drop the course to avoid the grade. A single documented case of academic dishonesty may also have other ramificiations, such as precluding you from switching into computing majors, registering for computing minors, joining the ICS Honors Program, and graduating from a computing major with honors. All of this is University and Bren School of ICS policy and is not subject to negotiation. Knowing when you're being dishonest I've been asked by students how they know when they're crossed the line between asking for help and being academically dishonest. To me, there is a fairly straightforward way to know the difference. Did you actually write the code in question? That's not a matter of whether you typed it in; that's a matter of whether it was you who wrote it (i.e., it is comprised of your own ideas about how to solve the problem, how to organize the solution, and so on). The easiest way to determine whether you've crossed the line is whether your work was driven by someone else's existing solution. Here are some examples: If you ask someone to help you resolve a compile-time or run-time error in your program, so you would understand what the error meant, that's fine. If you ask someone for help on a project and they responded by giving you a copy of their work, you already have one foot on the line the moment you receive it. If I were you, I would delete it, or not ask for it in the first place. If you ask someone else to help you understand a concept like recursion or the use of pointers, and the other student suggests a way you might think differently about the problem you're solving, that's fine. If you ask someone else to help you understand how to solve part of the project, and the other student brings up a copy of his or her solution and walks you through it — even if you don't look at it yourself — you've crossed the line. If you obtain a copy of someone else's solution to a project and you refer to it and use it to drive the work you're doing — in whole or in part — you've most definitely crossed the line. Copying someone else's code, typing in someone else's code, taking someone else's code and cosmetically changing it to make it appear superficially different are all (obvious) examples of academically dishonest behavior, yet upwards of 10% of my students are caught doing this — and sanctioned for it — every quarter. Please don't be one of them. If you provide someone with a copy of your work and they submit it as their own, you are also involved in academically dishonest behavior, and you should be aware that you can also be sanctioned for this, just as the other student can. Your best bet is not to share your work with other students, yet a not-insignificant percentage of my students are caught doing this every quarter, as well. In my view, this really isn't that complicated. We require you to do your own work, because that's how the learning is done in this course. A large part of what you're learning to do is to design and write programs, a skill that can only be built by designing and writing programs. You have to make the decisions about what to do next, how to organize your program, and so on. If someone else is making most of those decisions for you, you're not building the skills necessary to be ready for the courses that follow on from this one. And, from the standpoint of academic honesty, if someone else is making most of those decisions for you, that's plagiarism. The lesson Okay, so the moral of the story is that it's wise to avoid cheating. I believe that it's relatively rare that students enter a course with the conscious intent to cheat their way through it; why come to UCI if you're not planning to get something out of the coursework? So why do people cheat every quarter in every course? The answers vary, but here's the easiest way I can boil down the numerous conversations I've had with students caught cheating in my courses over the years: I fell behind and couldn't figure out how to catch up. Things happen and ten-week quarters are unforgiving. You might get sick, you might have issues crop up in your family, you might have misunderstood one of the earlier topics in this course (or one or more important topics in previous coursework) on which later topics depended, you might have an off-campus job that's demanding too much of your time, you might be trying to decide whether you're on the overall life path you want to be on... Any of those things (and many others) can make it hard to keep up. You fall a little behind, you fall a little further behind, and pretty soon the situation seems hopeless. You're under pressure, temptation gets the better of you, and suddenly it seems better to submit someone else's work than to submit nothing. As upwards of 10% of my students (who have cheated like this) can attest, it's not. If you feel like you're beginning to slip off course or things are getting beyond your control, the best thing to do is to talk to us sooner rather than later. We're here to help; we understand. But the reality of taking large-sized courses at a large-sized institution is that we're not going to know you're in need unless you tell us. If things are happening in your life, tell us; you don't have to be specific if you're not comfortable with it. Before the fact, there's often a way to work things out. After the fact, it's usually too late. And, in general, some students won't pass this course with a C or better this quarter, and won't be ready to take follow-on courses yet. And that's not as disastrous as it sounds. Most students who get less than a C in ICS 45C take the course again; most of those who take the course again pass it the second time around, with their feet firmly underneath them and ready to move forward. Sharing your own solutions online Some of our past students have wanted to post their own solutions to their projects online, with the goal of helping others or just showing off work that they were proud of. This is also problematic from an academic honesty perspective, because many or all of the projects you're working on will be reused in a future quarter; good problems are good problems, and I don't rebuild five new projects every quarter. Given that, posting your prior work online will absolutely lead to other students finding it and plagiarizing it — this is now one of the more common root causes of plagiarism cases that we find. I can appreciate, of course, that you might want to build a portfolio of work to demonstrate your skills as you build them, and I'm not unsympathetic about that. However, the reality is that posting solutions to first-year coursework is very unlikely to be of use in job searches or other professional scenarios. I've asked a number of hiring managers over the years, including ones I've worked for in my industry career, and have universally received the same response about it: Hiring managers generally aren't interested in seeing prior homework. Projects in courses like this one are sanitized, in the sense that they're problems that have been designed to be solved using techniques just taught, with the requirements clearly spelled out, and with few enough rough edges that a large number of students can solve them without encountering roadblocks that can't be overcome. Real-world work isn't like this, as it turns out. Figuring out what needs to be built is as important as figuring out how to build it. Building a portfolio is best done with your own solutions to your own problems, containing things you've written to scratch your own technology itches or explore concepts that you wanted to learn more about on your own. So, in general, despite the fact that you may be proud of the work you've done, you need to understand that there is a very strong likelihood that the only thing you'll be doing is enabling future students to plagiarize your work — and quite possibly becoming embroiled in the investigation yourself and being reported to AISC — while not accomplishing much of anything positive for youself. Do not share your prior solutions online.