21291
www.ics.uci.edu/~yunanc
Yunan Chen yunan chen Associate Professor, Department of Informatics, University of California, Irvine Bio News Publications  Students & Fellows Bio I am Associate Professor of Informatics in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences at the University of California, Irvine. My research interests lie in the intersection of Human-Computer Interaction (HCI), Computer Supported Cooperative Work (CSCW) and Health Informatics. In particular, I am interested in designing and evaluating interactive systems for clinical documentation, patient-provider interaction and personal information management during chronic care. I received my PhD degree from the iSchool at Drexel University in 2008, and a Bachelor of Medicine degree from China Medical University in 2003. My research aims to provide empirical, conceptual, and theoretical understandings of information practices in healthcare through in situ examination of how healthcare providers and consumers, e.g. patients and caregivers, interact with computerized technologies in their daily lives or work practices. I have done extensive research exploring sociotechnical impacts and design issues of electronic health records systems, and more recently, patient-facing applications such as personal informatics tools and chronic disease management systems. Currently, I am Director of the Undergraduate Minor Program in health informatics. News Janurary 2019: I will be a Program Committee Chair for Human Factors track at 2019 IEEE International Conference on Healthcare Informatics (ICHI 2019). Janurary 2019: please consider to submit a case description to our CHI 2019 workshop on Unpacking the Infrastructuring Work of Patients and Caregivers around the World. Janurary 2019: two systematic review articles accepted in International Journal of Medical Informarics Claus Bossen, Yunan Chen, Kathleen H. Pine. The Emergence of New Data Work Occupa- tions in Healthcare: The case of Medical Scribes. International Journal of Medical Informatics. 2019; 123:76-83. Yu Chen, Kingsley Travis Abel, John T. Janecek, Yunan Chen, Kai Zheng, Steve Cramer. Home-based Technologies for Stroke Rehabilitation: A Systematic Review. International Journal of Medical Informatics.2019; 123:11-22. December 2018: with my awesome students and collaborator, we have three full papers accepted at CHI 2019. Xianghua Ding, Yanqi Jiang, Xiankang Qin, Yunan Chen, Wenqiang Zhang. Reading Face, Reading Health: Exploring Face Reading Technologies for Everyday Health. In: Proceedings of the 2019 ACM Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems. Yubo Kou, Xinning Gui, Bonnie Nardi, Yunan Chen.Turn to the Self in Human-Computer Interaction: Care of the Self in (Re-)Negotiating Human-Technology Relationship. In: Pro- ceedings of the 2019 ACM Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems. Xinning Gui, Yunan Chen.Making Healthcare Infrastructure Work: Unpacking the Infras- tructuring Work of Individuals. In: Proceedings of the 2019 ACM Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems. August 2018: we have four papers accepted to CSCW 2018 Mayara Costa Figueiredo, Clara Caldeira, Elizabeth Eikey, Melissa Mazmanian, Yunan Chen. Engaging with Health Data: The Interplay Between Self-Tracking Activities and Emotions in Fertility Struggles. Proc. ACM Hum.-Comput. Interact. 2, CSCW, Article 40 (November 2018), 20 pages. Xinning Gui, Yunan Chen, Katie Pine. Navigating the Healthcare Service Black Box: Individual Competence and Fragmented System. Proc. ACM Hum.-Comput. Interact. 2, CSCW, Article 61 (November 2018), 26 pages. Yao Li, Xinning Gui*, Yunan Chen, Heng Xu, Alfred Kobsa. When Privacy Settings Become Granular: Investigating the Rationale and Impact of Privacy Settings on Social Network Sites. In: Proc. ACM Hum.-Comput. Interact. 2, CSCW, Article 108 (November 2018), 21 pages. Xiaojuan Ma, Xinning Gui*, Jiayue Fan, Mingqian Zhao, Yunan Chen, Kai Zheng. Profes- sional Medical Advice at your Fingertips: An empirical study of an online Ask the Doctor Platform. Proc. ACM Hum.-Comput. Interact. 2, CSCW, Article 116 (November 2018), 22 pages. Feburary 2018: I will co-chair Pervasive Health 2018 Doctoral consortium with Nervo Verdezoto Janurary 2018: Check out our second workshop on Datification in Healthcare to be held at Aarhus Denmark December 2018: Our paper accepted in CHI 2018 Xinning Gui, Yubo Kou,Kathleen Pine,Elisa Ladaw, Harold Kim,Eli Suzuki-Gill, Yunan Chen. Multidimensional Risk Communication: Public discourse on Risks during an Emerging Epidemic. August 2017: Three papers accepted in CSCW 2018. Xinning Gui, Yu Chen, Yubo Kou, Katie Pine, Yunan Chen. Investigating Support Seeking from Peers for Pregnancy in Online Health Communities. Yubo Kou, Xinning Gui, Yunan Chen, Katie Pine. Conspiracy Talk during a Public Health Crisis: towards Better Social Media Design. Mayara Costa Figueiredo, Clara Caldeira, Tera L. Reynolds, Sean Victory, Kai Zheng, Yunan Chen. Self-Tracking for Fertility Care: Collaborative Support for a Highly Personalized Problem. June 2017: Four papers accepted in AMIA 2017. Clara Caldeira, Yu Chen, Lesley Chan, Vivian Pham, Yunan Chen, Kai Zheng. Mobile apps for mood tracking: an analysis of features and user reviews. AMIA Annual Symposium. 2017. Mayara Figueiredo, Clara Caldeira, Yunan Chen, Kai Zheng. Routine self-tracking of health: Reasons, facilitating factors, and the potential impact on health management practices. AMIA Annual Symposium. 2017. Xinning Gui, Yue Wang, Yubo Kou, Tera Reynolds, Yunan Chen, Qiaozhu Mei, Kai Zheng. Understanding the patterns of health information dissemination on social media during the Zika outbreak. AMIA Annual Symposium. 2017. Mustafa Hussain, Tera Reynolds, Fatemeh Mousavi, Yunan Chen, Kai Zheng. Think- ing Together: Modeling clinical decision-support as a sociotechnical system. AMIA Annual Symposium. 2017. May 2017: Check out my new Interactions article on "Health information technology: opportunities abound. challenges remain" where I wrote about my personal experience as a healthcare consumer. March 2017: A fun paper with Yong Ming Kow on digital learning has been accepted in ACM Conference on Creativity & Cognition (C&C 2017). Yong Ming Kow, Yunan Chen, Waikuen Cheng, Titus Nit. Creative Information Use Among Young Adults: Challenges for Learning and Opportunities for Media (Re)Design. Feburary 2017: I will be co-chairing CHI 2018 doctoral consortium with Kenton O'Hara, and Floyd Mueller. January 2017: I will be serving as the editor for Health Matters forum in Interactions. Looking forward to your submissions. Publications A list of my publications is available at Google Scholar. Students & Fellows Xinning Gui Clara Marques Caldeira Mayara Figueiredo Sun Young Park (graduated in 2015) Yu Chen (postdoctoral fellow) Contact: 6099 Bren Hall University of California, Irvine Irvine, CA, 92697 yunanc [at] ics.uci.edu Download high resolution headshot.