21434
www.ics.uci.edu/~zmontaze
Zahra Montazeri Toggle navigation Menu Zahra Montazeri About Me My Paintings Resume Welcome To My Studio! I am a PhD Student in Computer Science at University of California, Irvine. I am super interested in both programming and art and so I chose to pursue my studies in Computer Graphics where I can contribute to animation industry which I am really enthusiastic about. Tell Me More About Me Some of my recent work experiences: Summer 2018 Software Engineer, Pixar Animation I implemented two new tools for Hydra viewer in Katana: Snap-to-Cursor and Eye-Rig. Using Snap-to-Cursor, light is placed and aimed at cursor positions in 3D geometry helping artists to quickly createand modify all light kinds. And Eye-Rig tool is used to place eye-highlight at user defined position and the modeto place highlight at the relatively same position for all other eyes found in the character. This provides the quickmodification of lights to leads highlights at desirable positions on eyes. Summer 2017 Lighting RnD Engineer, Dreamworks Animation I implimented a c++ tool for automatic light-rig extraction from stereo panorama images. Then, I added this tool as a new pluging to Katana which is a lighting software. It was a great pleasure that my summer project went amazing and ended up a great tool and made all lighting artists happy. Sep. 2017 Rendering RnD Engineer, Dreamworks Animation During my internship at lighting team, I volunteerly worked with rendering team as well. I worked on developing Multiple Importance sampling for emissive volumes. It was my honor working and contributing to Moonray which is Dreamworks new renderer. Summer 2016 Software engineer, xSeer Inc xSeer is a Big Data Visualization platform and I had a great experience working there. I also got LightSpeed Venture Partner fellowship for this program. I was a software engineer and I worked with WebGL using node.js. Since Sep 2015 Research Assistant, iGravi Lab. I am a PhD student in Computer Science, University of California, Irvine. My field of research is Computer Graphics currently, working on modeling and cloth rendering using volumetric data. Feb - July 2015 Researcher intern, IUI Lab Intelligent User Interface (IUI) Lab supervised by Dr. Metin Sezgin is located in Koc University, Istangul. I have been working on Designing and Implementation for User Interface of an Android Application using Java. 2012 - 2015 Research Assistant, Image Processing Lab I have been the member of Image Processing Laboratory at Sharif University of Technology for almost three years. I have worked on several research projects under supervision of Dr. Shohreh Kasaei. Summer 2014 Researcher intern, IUI Lab I have worked on Visualization of Hierarchical Data using Treemap. It was an android application for Student Assessment through Free-Form Questions. 2012 - 2015 Painting Teacher at Visual Art Club I have been painting for twenty years and I love to teach others whatever I know. I am a painting teacher for almost all of the art mediums. My Paintings Welcome to my gallary. Best Mom Ever Pastel Best Couple :) Pastel Turkish me Colored Pencil Baby shower gift Pastel Dignity Oil Paint Cozy Winter Oil Paint Inside the Man Oil Paint Infinity Pallete Knife Painting Sorrow Oil Paint Escape Pastel Baby Charcoal Dreams Pastel Virtual Reality Digital Hope Oil Paint Leila Published Book Golden Gate Pastel Dignity Oil painting on canvas, 2012 No matter what is the color of my eyes or the shape of my nose. What matters is the inside! Dignity comes from the soal not the appearance! I love the qoute from Dr Seuss: "Be who you are and say what you feel, because those who mind don't matter and those who matter don't mind." Close Cozy Winter Oil painting on canvas, 2008 Nice winter, right? It reminds me my good memories and that's why I love it. Close Inside the Man Oil painting on small canvases, 2012 This is the talking face of many of us when we go wrong. It says the majority of the face area is mouth. When he speaks a lot and listen less. Smallest portion of his life is dedicated to the brain. Although he has a right and truth eye, he sees with the black one and impact his brain as well. So the brain goes away from his truth prospective and obeys what the eye sees from the black view! He covers his ears with his hair, and he doesn't want to get to the light. He knows he doesn't know but he insists on being dumb! Close Infinity Pallete knife oil painting on Suede, 2012 The story of lovers using pallete knife. Depicting kindness with this harsh technique is one of my favorite mediums of art. Close Sorrow Oil painting on canvas 170x100cm, 2011 I saw the model of this art piece at the Mr Katouzian's exhibition when I was 9 years old. I felt in love with the energy it gave me and I was so enthusiastic to paint this sometime in future when I improve my painting skills so I could paint that. I kept the image for few years and I finaly painted it when I was 19! Close Escape Pastel, 2012 Close Baby Charcoal, 2012 Close Dreams Pastel, 2012 Close Virtual Reality Digital art, 2015 Taking digital stick figures to the real life is the story of Virtual Reality. When the glassy barrier between virtual and real life is broken and they become alive. This is the goal of Intelligent User Interface (IUI) Laboratory where I had been an intern. I was asked to visualize this goal so they can print it on mugs and give them to visitors of the lab as a gift. I involved all of my labmates including the advisor in the image and marked them by their names. Close Hope Oil painting on canvas, 2012 The story of a poor boy is depicted who doesn't have light in his life to brighten his hope with that, but he MADE one for himself. He drew the window of his dream on the obstacle of his way, so he could have the sun without sun setting for the source of his hope. Close Leila Published Poem Book, 2013 This was a joint project with one of the greatest poets in Iran. It was my honor to visualize his perspective for each of the peoms. I tried to camouglage as much meaning as possible in each of the drawings. As you may noticed, Leila, the main character of the book, appeared in the steam of the coffee. The left image is the cover of the book and the right image is one of the fifty drawings inside the book. Close Golden Gate Pastel, 2016 I painted this during my internship in San Fransicso. Sittting in front of the bridge and enjoying the beauty of God's painting and human's artpiece at the same time. Close Best Mom Ever! Pastel, 2017 Close Best Couple :) Pastel, 2017 Close Mohammad Hossein Pastel, 2017 Close Turkish me Colored pencil, 2017 Close Baby Shower gift Pastel, 2017 I was so excited when I was told my PhD advisor is expecting a baby. As the baby shower gift, I drew him with his future baby. I kindly ask all advisors to put a high resolution photo as their profile picture just in case, if their advisee wants to draw them sometime. ^-^ Close