21438
www.jstart.org
Jumpstart - Children First. Toggle navigation News Events Blog Alumni En Español Join The Corps Donate About Us Celebrating 25 Years Mission & Vision Culture & Values Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Leadership Our Stories Financials Careers Contact Us Our Work Our Program Where We Serve Corps Members Alumni Partners Supporters Impact Results Policy & Advocacy Early Educators New Initiatives Read for the Record For Large Groups For Families For Sponsors For Partners FAQs Resources Jumpstart News Blog Our Stories Publications Videos Press Room Get Involved Join the Corps Make a Donation Attend an Event Become a Supporter Advocate for Early Ed Join the Alumni Network Join the Jumpstart Mailing List Shop the Store About Us Celebrating 25 Years Mission & Vision Culture & Values Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Leadership Our Stories Financials Careers Contact Us Our Work Our Program Where We Serve Corps Members Alumni Partners Supporters Impact Results Policy & Advocacy Early Educators New Initiatives Read for the Record For Large Groups For Families For Sponsors For Partners FAQs Resources Jumpstart News Blog Our Stories Publications Videos Press Room Get Involved Join the Corps Make a Donation Attend an Event Become a Supporter Advocate for Early Ed Join the Alumni Network Join the Jumpstart Mailing List Shop the Store Go Apply Now to Join the Jumpstart Corps — The Class of 2036 is counting on you. Apply Now to Join the Jumpstart Corps — The Class of 2036 is counting on you. Learn More & Apply Get Involved! Join the Corps Donate Read for the Record Jumpstart relies on college students and community volunteers to instill in children a lifelong love of learning throughout our year-long program. Learn more No matter the amount, all donations are put right to work closing our nation’s kindergarten readiness gap. Donate Now Help us shine a spotlight on high-quality early education by participating in the world’s largest reading experience. Read with us + Join the Corps Jumpstart relies on college students and community volunteers to instill in children a lifelong love of learning throughout our year-long program. Learn more + Donate No matter the amount, all donations are put right to work closing our nation’s kindergarten readiness gap. Donate Now + Read for the Record Help us shine a spotlight on high-quality early education by participating in the world’s largest reading experience. Read with us Research shows that high-quality early learning programs can improve kindergarten readiness, particularly for disadvantaged children, and the effects go far beyond just kindergarten: children who receive high-quality early education are more likely to stay in school longer, graduate from high school, and attend a four-year college.* *Karoly, 2012; Campbell, et al, 2012 That's where Jumpstart comes in Jumpstart Your Career Are you passionate about making a difference in children’s lives? Join The Team Jumpstart News Together, we can help all children build the key language and literacy skills they need to take on the world. Donate Now About Us Celebrating 25 Years Mission & Vision Culture & Values Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Leadership Our Stories Financials Careers Contact Us Our Work Our Program Where We Serve Corps Members Alumni Partners Supporters Impact Results Policy & Advocacy Early Educators New Initiatives Read for the Record For Large Groups For Families For Sponsors For Partners FAQs Resources Jumpstart News Blog Our Stories Publications Videos Press Room Get Involved Join the Corps Make a Donation Attend an Event Become a Supporter Advocate for Early Ed Join the Alumni Network Join the Jumpstart Mailing List Shop the Store Connect With Us Newsletter Sign Up © Copyright 2019 Jumpstart for Young Children. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy