21444
www.uci.edu
Home | UCI Skip to main content Toggle primary navigation UCI homepage About Toggle dropdown: About About Us University Facts Strategic Plan American Dream Chancellor Faculty Honors Peter the Anteater Diversity Resources Administrative Offices Academic Senate Directory Visit Work at UCI Support UCI Smoke-Free Campus Admissions Toggle dropdown: Admissions Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Professional Programs Business Law Medicine Undergraduate International Admissions Graduate International Admissions Financial Aid Housing Academics Toggle dropdown: Academics Arts Biological Sciences Business Education Engineering Humanities Information & Computer Sciences Interdisciplinary Studies Law Medicine Nursing Science Pharmaceutical Sciences Physical Sciences Public Health Social Ecology Social Sciences General Catalogue Majors & Minors Schedule of Classes Undergraduate/Undeclared Division of Undergraduate Education Graduate Division Division of Continuing Education Campuswide Honors Program Undergraduate Research UCI CalTeach Libraries Study Abroad Center Summer Session Academic Calendars Academic Senate Research Toggle dropdown: Research Office of Research Faculty Profiles Postdoctoral Scholars Applied Innovation Invention Transfer Group Undergraduate Research Graduate Research Research Centers & Units UCOP Office of Research Community Toggle dropdown: Community Academic Engagement Arts Athletics K-12 Programs Youth Camps Campus Events Calendar Conference & Event Services Hospital Medical Services Clinical Trials Toggle dropdown: Find information for... Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Parents Make a Gift to UCI Search Web People Home Top The Buzz News Who We Are Visit Events Arts & Athletics Initiatives Health Alumni & Giving Resources Ride, run or walk for a cancer-free California on June 8 Register now for the UCI Anti-Cancer Challenge The Buzz Prescription: nutrition Culinary medicine class teaches future physicians how to practice what they preach – and pass it on to patients An eye for optics Dr. Petra Wilder-Smith is changing oral cancer care – one laser at a time Anime planet New class on Japanese animation examines globalization, sociocultural context of popular film genre Timely treatment UCI Health’s rapid-response team saves a young father’s life News Liz Griffin named chief of UCI Police Department Commander has spent 27 years in Long Beach law enforcement UCI Esports team starring in ESPN2 documentary series Anteaters to defend League of Legends collegiate title this week James Bullock to become new dean of UCI School of Physical Sciences Noted cosmologist is currently chair of Department of Physics & Astronomy Visit UCI News Media Inquiries Find an Expert Who We Are Founded in 1965, UCI is the youngest member of the prestigious Association of American Universities. The campus has produced three Nobel laureates and is known for its academic achievement, premier research, innovation and anteater mascot. Led by Chancellor Howard Gillman, UCI has more than 36,000 students and offers 222 degree programs. It’s located in one of the world’s safest and most economically vibrant communities and is Orange County’s second-largest employer, contributing $5 billion annually to the local economy. About UCI Academics UCI is a center for quality education that fosters passionate, enthusiastic and ongoing expansion of knowledge and approaches to scholarship. Research Programs UCI is improving lives through the investigation, discovery and dissemination of knowledge in numerous forms to all levels of society. Our Community UCI students, faculty and staff reach beyond the classrooms and laboratories to address social issues and improve the human condition. Visit UCI combines the strengths of a major research university with the bounty of an incomparable Southern California location. Learn more about visiting our campus Campus Maps Visit the Campus Maps page for the best way to reach UCI and locate intended campus destinations, as well as nearby parking options. Visitor Center The Visitor Center welcomes prospective students and their parents, alumni and all visitors who want to know more about the university. Parking & Transportation Transportation & Distribution Services offers information on parking rates and timely updates on sustainable commuting options. Events There’s always something interesting going on at UCI. Enlightening classes, engaging public lectures, captivating performances and exciting athletic events take place year-round. UCI campus Calendar 30 May Ingenuity 2019 Beckman Center 30 May 10th Annual Veteran Appreciation Dinner Student Center 31 May Southern California AI and Biomedicine Symposium Calit2 Auditorium 1 June Stop the Bleed UC Irvine Medical Center Arts & Athletics Arts Claire Trevor School of the Arts is UCI's center for innovative, creative engagement in art in all of its facets: production, critique, appreciation and development. Learn more about the Claire Trevor School of the Arts Get Tickets to an arts event Athletics Our mission is to facilitate and enrich the education and personal growth of students through their participation in competitive NCAA Division I athletics. Learn more about UCI Athletics Get Tickets to an athletic event Initiatives Innovation UCI Applied Innovation brings together bright minds from the campus community and industry. This collaboration delivers promising innovations to the market and strengthens invaluable connections to the business world. Learn more about Applied Innovation Illuminations All UCI students, regardless of major, should have serious and meaningful exposure to the creative arts. In addition, we seek to strengthen the connections between UCI and our regional arts and culture centers and institutions.Learn more about the Illuminations initiative Health UCI Health provides the highest quality healthcare to Orange County and surrounding communities through its world-class physicians, surgeons and clinical staff. UCI Health Delivering world-class healthcare – and hope Alumni & Giving Alumni Founded in 1968, the UCI Alumni Association offers an enriching and supportive hub for graduates, fosters lifelong Anteater pride and welcomes non-alumni community participation. Click below to discover the many benefits offered by UCIAA. Learn about UCI Alumni Association Giving Join UCI in the fight against cancer at the Anti-Cancer Challenge on June 8 at Aldrich Park. When you ride, run, walk or volunteer, you move us one step closer to finding cures for cancer. Learn about UCI Anti-Cancer Challenge Resources Work at UCI UCI is a great place to work. Start your job search here. Emergency Preparedness Learn simple steps to be better prepared for an emergency – at work and at home. Disability Services Resources for students, parents and faculty members. Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Flickr Social Media Directory UCI Gmail Webmail EEE Work at UCI Emergency Preparedness Disability Services Office of the Chancellor University of California Feedback Privacy Notice Media Inquiries Accreditation Information Clery Act University of California, Irvine Irvine, CA 92697 949-824-5011 © 2019 UC Regents