6243
isg.ics.uci.edu
Information Systems Group – Bren School of ICS, UC Irvine Home People Faculty Students Recent Alumni Research Staff Visitors Research Projects Publications Teaching Courses DB Qual Events Talks News About Sponsors & Partners Visitor Info Contact us Previous Slide Next Slide The Information Systems Group (ISG) at UC Irvine is part of the Department of Computer Science within the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences. ISG is a broad and vital group consisting of five faculty members (Profs. Carey, Jain, Li, Mehrotra, and Venkatasubramanian), staff, students, visitors, and other affiliates. The mission of ISG is broad-ranging, as the combination of the next-generation Web, diverse forms of multimodal data, and new devices have created a world rich with heterogeneous forms of information that need to be located, accessed, queried, managed, archived, and integrated much like the more traditional (yet ever important) enterprise data. ISG’s mission is to address this rapidly evolving information infrastructure by conducting research on all aspects of modern data and information systems. ISG faculty interests include big data, text analytics, visualization, situational awareness, and cyber-physical systems. Research topics cover architectures, algorithms, and performance evaluation of a variety of next-generation information systems and technologies. Current topics include Big Data systems, data analysis and data cleansing, data visualization, text analytics, multimedia information systems and search, adaptive middleware, experiential computing, mobile and pervasive computing, service-oriented architectures, search techniques, and scalable data-intensive computing. Search for : Latest News Prof. Chen Li became an ACM Distinguished member. November 7, 2018 Qing Han’s paper won the best paper award at IEEE SRDS 2018. October 4, 2018 SoCalDB Day 2018 at UCSD (October 19, 2018) September 1, 2018 Couchbase Sponsors ISG September 1, 2017 Upcoming Events Pat Helland: There’s No Substitute for Interchangeability May 31 @ 3:00 pm - 4:00 pm View All Events Please follow & like us :) Follow Copyright 2018 | ISG-UCI cross Hit ENTER to search or ESC to close