6266
mhcid.ics.uci.edu
MHCID ICS | master of human-computer interaction and design (MHCID) Search for: Menu Skip to content Program About the Program Curriculum Capstone Projects People MHCID Faculty and Staff Advisory Board Current Students Alumni Mentors Admissions Admissions Overview In-Person Information Session Online Information Sessions Costs and Financial Aid Events UX Career Conference FAQ Home Home The MHCID Advantage Learn More Take the Next Step Learn More Meet Our Team Learn More Welcome to the Master of Human-Computer Interaction & Design Program UC Irvine’s Department of Informatics offers the only mixed format, low-residency one-year master of human-computer interaction and design (MHCID) in the world, providing students the benefits of in-person, high-touch learning in accelerated on-campus visits with the flexibility of online distance education. The MHCID program prepares its graduates to be leaders in user experience research and design, interaction design, information architecture, product design, and human-computer interaction. The MHCID program is also fully accredited by WSCUC and overseen by the Academic Senate of the University of California. Program Highlights An interdisciplinary orientation Flexibility to complete your Master’s while continuing in your profession Nine courses to be completed in one year Diverse faculty with backgrounds in art and design, business, computer science, media arts, information science, and psychology A substantial project component for an external client, with a team orientation WHY MHCID? Preparing for the Future. MHCID offers an inclusive, interdisciplinary academic community geared toward highly successful professionals in user experience. Graduates of MHCID will be prepared for a variety of careers, including user experience (UX) research and design, systems analysis, design research, product design, project management, usability evaluation, web development, and more. Students will attend intensive, accelerated in-person classes on the beautiful UCI campus in Orange County, Calif., as well as courses online. Real-World Experience. MHCID students solve real-world problems in diverse teams that work closely with our award-winning interdisciplinary faculty. After mastering a range of key UX skills and subjects, graduates will gain important academic and practical experience through our capstone project course. Working in teams of four to six, students will collaborate with an industry sponsor to innovate, improve, or modify a new or existing human-to-machine technology. Flexibility and Support. MHCID maintains low student-faculty ratios across the program, with every class taught by a faculty member and receiving support from multiple Teaching Assistants. The flexibility of distance learning allows students to complete their coursework on a schedule that meets their professional needs without moving and leaving successful career paths. MHCID students will have access to a broad range of networking activities through our extensive alumni network, as well as our industry and academic advisory boards. Watch an online information session about the MHCID Program For more information, contact the MHCID Graduate Office at mhcid@ics.uci.edu or the program director at mhciddirector@ics.uci.edu. Feedback Privacy Policy © 2019 UC Regents