6268
mhcid.ics.uci.edu/admissions/costs-and-financial-aid
Costs and Financial Aid | MHCID ICS Search for: Menu Skip to content Program About the Program Curriculum Capstone Projects People MHCID Faculty and Staff Advisory Board Current Students Alumni Mentors Admissions Admissions Overview In-Person Information Session Online Information Sessions Costs and Financial Aid Events UX Career Conference FAQ Costs and Financial Aid Costs and Financial Aid The Self-Supporting Graduate Professional Degree Program (SSGPDP) fee for the MHCID students entering in 2019 is $49,500, regardless of your residency. This fee includes all costs for the program, except air, ground, or rail transportation required to attend the in person sessions. The MHCID is a one-year program. Fees are subject to change, both before students enroll and during a student’s enrollment. UC Irvine bills for fees each quarter. Fees are paid in four equal installments at the beginning of each quarter of the program. Fees include course materials (e.g., Adobe Creative Suite, reading materials, and so on) and local travel expenses (e.g., hotels, meals in Orange County) for the accelerated courses. Fees do not include other living expenses, student health insurance, or specific campus-based fees (e.g., student recreation center). Please note that the MHCID is a self-supporting degree program; thus, certain fee waivers traditionally accepted by the University of California may not be accepted. For example, we do not accept Calvet Waivers nor is there a discount for “in-state” students. However, all students will be eligible for financial aid. http://www.ofas.uci.edu/content/default.aspx Additionally, we offer a variety of merit-based scholarships, including our “20 for 20” program, a scholarship in the amount of 20% of total program fees for the top 20% of each admitted cohort. All students who apply for the program will also be considered for scholarships. No supplemental materials are required for consideration. Please contact mhciddirector@ics.uci.edu for further information. Feedback Privacy Policy © 2019 UC Regents