6275
mhcid.ics.uci.edu?p=22
MHCID Faculty and Staff | MHCID ICS Search for: Menu Skip to content Program About the Program Curriculum Capstone Projects People MHCID Faculty and Staff Advisory Board Current Students Alumni Mentors Admissions Admissions Overview In-Person Information Session Online Information Sessions Costs and Financial Aid Events UX Career Conference FAQ MHCID Faculty and Staff MHCID Faculty and Staff The MHCID program is housed in the Department of Informatics at UC Irvine, a leading department in the intersection of people, design, and technology. The department is home to four ACM fellows, four members of the CHI Academy, three endowed chairs, and numerous winners of other prestigious awards. The MHCID program draws faculty members from a myriad of backgrounds to create a rich environment in which students can draw upon a wide range of expertise. Faculty come from across UCI and from industry. Students in the MHCID program will have the opportunity to interact closely with these faculty and with the prestigious members of our industry advisory board. Gillian Hayes Faculty Director Robert A. and Barbara L. Kleist Professor in Informatics Contact her at gillianrh@ics.uci.edu or @gillianrhayes for further information. Judy Olson Founding Faculty Member Donald Bren Professor in Informatics and Business Don Patterson Founding Faculty Member Associate Professor, Informatics and Computer Science Steve Hosaflook Program Director Contact him at mhciddirector@ics.uci.edu Adriana Avina Program Coordinator Blake DiCosola Lecturer Strategy Director, Razorfish London Andrea J. O’Donnell Student Services Graduate Counselor, Donald Bren School of ICS Contact her at mhcid@ics.uci.edu for more information Rebecca Black Pedagogical Advisor Associate Professor, Education and Informatics Mimi Ito Pedagogical Advisor John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation Chair in Digital Media and Learning, Anthropology and Informatics MHCID Executive Committee Darren Denenberg Informatics Gillian Hayes Informatics, Education, Pediatrics Jesse Colin Jackson Arts Melissa Mazmanian Informatics, Business Don Patterson Informatics, Computer Science Katie Salen Informatics Bill Tomlinson Informatics, Education Feedback Privacy Policy © 2019 UC Regents