6283
mlphysics.ics.uci.edu
MLPhysics Portal Index Datasets Antihydrogen dataset Dataset for 'Efficient Antihydrogen Detection in Antimatter Physics by Deep Learning' Higgs to Tau Tau dataset Dataset for 'Enhanced Higgs Boson to Tau Tau Search with Deep Learning' Jet Substructure dataset Dataset for 'Jet Substructure Classification in High-Energy Physics with Deep Neural Networks' HEPMASS dataset Dataset for 'Parameterized Machine Learning for High-Energy Physics' HIGGS dataset Dataset for 'Searching for Exotic Particles in High-Energy Physics with Deep Learning' SUSY (supersymmetry) dataset Dataset for 'Searching for Exotic Particles in High-Energy Physics with Deep Learning' Jet Flavor dataset Dataset for 'Jet Flavor Classification in High-Energy Physics with Deep Neural Networks' Publications Relevant scientific articles published or submitted by our team. If you use any data or tools from the MLPhysics Portal, please cite the appropriate article. Decorrelated Jet Substructure Tagging using Adversarial Neural Networks C. Shimmin, P. Sadowski, P. Baldi, E. Weik, D. Whiteson, E. Goul, and A. Sogaard Physical Review D, 2017. Efficient Antihydrogen Detection in Antimatter Physics by Deep Learning P. Sadowski, B. Radics, Ananya, and P. Baldi Journal of Physics Communications, 2017. Jet Flavor Classification in High-Energy Physics with Deep Neural Networks D. Guest, J. Collado, P. Baldi, S. Hsu, G. Urban, and D. Whiteson Physical Review D, 2016. Jet Substructure Classification in High-Energy Physics with Deep Neural Networks P. Baldi, K. Bauer, C. Eng, P. Sadowski, and D. Whiteson Physical Review D, 2016. Parameterized Machine Learning for High-Energy Physics P. Baldi, K. Cranmer, T. Faucett, P. Sadowski, and D. Whiteson The European Physics Journal C, 76(5), 1-7, 2016. Enhanced Higgs Boson to Tau Tau Search with Deep Learning P. Baldi, P. Sadowski, and D. Whiteson. Physical Review Letters, 2015. Deep Learning, Dark Knowledge, and Dark Matter P. Sadowski, J. Collado, D. Whiteson, P. Baldi Journal of Machine Learning Research, 2015. Searching for Exotic Particles in High-energy Physics with Deep Learning P. Baldi, P. Sadowski, and D. Whiteson. Nature Communications, 2014. Searching for Higgs Boson Decay Modes with Deep Learning P. Sadowski, D. Whiteson, P. Baldi Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 2014. For more info, please contact: pjsadows [at] ics [.] uci [.] edu University of California, Irvine