6372
ngs.ics.uci.edu
Ramesh Jain – Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher Search Ramesh Jain Entrepreneur, Researcher, and Teacher About Ramesh News Events Blogs Research Books Patents Presentations Projects Research Papers Computer Vision Experiential Computing Multimedia Information Management Teaching Current Courses Past Courses Entrepreneurship Current Companies Past Companies Partners Current Students Past Students Collaborators Professional/Social Services Recognitions Interviews Personal Affiliations Education Favorite Books Favorite Quotes Navigation Entrepreneur Researcher Teacher About Ramesh Ramesh has been an active researcher in Computer Vision, Artificial Intelligence, Multimedia Computing, Experiential computing, and Digital Health. While professor of computer science and engineering at the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, he founded and directed artificial intelligence laboratory; and at University of California, San Diego, he founded visual computing lab. At University of California, Irvine, He is founding director of UCI Institute for Future Health. He was also the founding Editor-in-Chief of IEEE MultiMedia magazine and Machine Vision and Applications journal. His co-authored and co-edited books include two text books: Machine Vision (published in 1995), and Multimedia Computing (published in 2014). Ramesh has been elected Fellow of ACM, IEEE, AAAS, IAPR, AAAI, and SPIE. He is the recipient of several awards including the ACM SIGMM Technical Achievement Award 2010. His current research is in building computing and data-driven approaches for Future Health. Ramesh co-founded multiple companies (Imageware, Virage, Praja, Seraja, mChron, and Krumbs), managed them in initial stages, and then turned them over to professional management. He enjoys working with companies, is involved in research, and enjoys writing. Vision, Passion, and Current Research is described in: A Navigational Approach to Health; in IEEE Computer Magazine. April 2019. RECENT: Future of Computing and Food; Keynote Talk; Kyoto, Japan, March 28, 2019. IEEE Web Intelligence 2018; Keynote Talk; Santiago Chile, December 4, 2018 15th IEEE Int. Conf on Advanced Video and Signal Based Surveillance; Keynote Talk; Oct 27, 2018 Fourth India Science Festival; Keynote in Global Indian Science and Technology Stakeholders; Lucknow, India; Oct 5, 2018. IEEE MIPR 2018; Keynote Talk; Miami, Florida, April 10, 2018 INTERVIEW: ACM SigMM Records, Issue 2, 2017. Video Profile: Ramesh Jain – Father of Multimedia. International Interview Published: Ramesh Jain Interview for Chinese Professional Organization. CCCF Magazine April 2015 Copyright © 2019 Ramesh Jain | Theme by: Theme Horse | Powered by: WordPress Back to Top