6756
publichealth.uci.edu
Public Health | University of California, Irvine Toggle navigation Home Home Tools & Apps About Home Home Tools & Apps About Us Contact Us Location/Map Giving Careers and Employment Career Resources Employment Downloads Academics Undergraduate Program Overview Majors Minor GH Certificate CPHPW Certificate Research Practicum (log in) More… Graduate Programs Overview Master of Public Health (MPH) Ph.D. in Public Health Joint Programs More… Students Ph.D. Profiles Student Affairs Schedule of Classes Alumni Alumni Alumni Home Upcoming Events Keep in Touch Contact Us Give to UCI Public Health Faculty Faculty Profiles Faculty Affiliated Faculty Lectures Faculty Resources People People Adminstration Faculty Faculty Profiles Faculty Resources Students MPH Profiles Ph.D. Profiles Adminstration Key Contacts Advisory Board Operational Committees News News & Spotlights Seminars Archived Seminars UCI UC Irvine GHREAT Research Programs Affiliated Programs Health Affairs by WEB by Person GO 2019 Annual Symposium of the Undergraduate Research Opportunity Program (UROP), lead by Professor Miryha Runnerstrom and assisted by graduate student Meghan Jefferis MORE 2019 Annual Symposium of the Undergraduate Research Opportunity Program (UROP), lead by Professor Miryha Runnerstrom and assisted by graduate student Meghan Jefferis MORE 2019 Annual Symposium of the Undergraduate Research Opportunity Program (UROP), lead by Professor Miryha Runnerstrom and assisted by graduate student Meghan Jefferis MORE 2019 Annual Symposium of the Undergraduate Research Opportunity Program (UROP), lead by Professor Miryha Runnerstrom and assisted by graduate student Meghan Jefferis MORE 2019 Annual Symposium of the Undergraduate Research Opportunity Program (UROP), lead by Professor Miryha Runnerstrom and assisted by graduate student Meghan Jefferis MORE 2019 Annual Symposium of the Undergraduate Research Opportunity Program (UROP), lead by Professor Miryha Runnerstrom and assisted by graduate student Meghan Jefferis MORE 2019 Annual Symposium of the Undergraduate Research Opportunity Program (UROP), lead by Professor Miryha Runnerstrom and assisted by graduate student Meghan Jefferis MORE 2019 Annual Symposium of the Undergraduate Research Opportunity Program (UROP), lead by Professor Miryha Runnerstrom and assisted by graduate student Meghan Jefferis MORE 2019 Annual Symposium of the Undergraduate Research Opportunity Program (UROP), lead by Professor Miryha Runnerstrom and assisted by graduate student Meghan Jefferis MORE 2019 Annual Symposium of the Undergraduate Research Opportunity Program (UROP), lead by Professor Miryha Runnerstrom and assisted by graduate student Meghan Jefferis MORE 2019 Annual Symposium of the Undergraduate Research Opportunity Program (UROP), lead by Professor Miryha Runnerstrom and assisted by graduate student Meghan Jefferis MORE Reception organized by UCI Advancement for Vice Chancellor Goldstein at Newport Bay Club - May 8th MORE Reception organized by UCI Advancement for Vice Chancellor Goldstein at Newport Bay Club - May 8th MORE Reception organized by UCI Advancement for Vice Chancellor Goldstein at Newport Bay Club - May 8th MORE Reception organized by UCI Advancement for Vice Chancellor Goldstein at Newport Bay Club - May 8th MORE Reception organized by UCI Advancement for Vice Chancellor Goldstein at Newport Bay Club - May 8th MORE MPH Career Forum featuring Ms. Sara Goodman, MPH MORE MPH Career Forum featuring Ms. Sara Goodman, MPH MORE Join UCI Public Health at UCI Homecoming - 2019 Homecoming is a UCI tradition that offers a variety of activities and special events, from the Party in the Park Homecoming Festival and Reunions to Anteater Family Weekend for parents - there's something for everyone. Register today! Alumni Feb. 9 Festival, Basketball & More Reunions Feb. 8-9 Classes of 1969, 1974, 1979, 1984, 1989, 1994, 1999, 2004, 2009 & 2014 Parents Feb. 8-9 Parents, guardians and family members of UCI students Students Feb. 4-9 Faculty/Staff Feb. 9 Community Feb. 9 Show your support: GIVE TO UCI PUBLIC HEALTH! Program in Public Health UCI Giving Day 2019 April 24, 2019 is UCI Giving Day! Show your Anteater Pride and help UCI meet our goal of 2,400 gifts in 24 hours. Every. Gift. Counts. Hear why Giving Day is important to Public Health students and alumni and make your gift HERE! Welcome to UC Irvine Public Health Academic Program Review - 2019Download Academic Program Review - 2019 There is no better time in history to engage with public health at UC Irvine, home to innovative and resourceful public health research, practice, and education initiatives. Click here to learn more about us. Our Mission and Values: The mission of the public health program at the University of California, Irvine is to create, integrate, and translate population-based knowledge into preventive strategies for reducing the societal burden of human disease and disability through excellence in research, education, and public service. Click here to view Our Mission, Goals, and Objectives. We currently offer a B.S. in Public Health Sciences and a B.A. in Public Health Policy; a Master of Public Health (MPH) in four emphases: Environmental Health, Epidemiology, Sociocultural Diversity and Health, and Biostatistics; and a Ph.D in Public Health with concentrations in Global Health and Disease Prevention. We also offer a minor in Public Health. For more information on the undergraduate programs, please click here or send an email to phuao@uci.edu. For more information about the graduate program, please click here or send an email to phgo@uci.edu. Give to UCI Public Health: Our mission is to create, integrate, and translate population-based knowledge into preventive strategies for reducing the societal burden of human disease and disability through excellence in research, education and public service. We value your awareness and support. Your gift is appreciated and helps us achieve our mission. Learn More LEARN MORE DONATE NOW Spotlights: News Features 1 Article: E-wasted: Recycling Electronics can Reduce Toxic Byproducts and Recover Precious Metals in Safe and Useful Ways, Interface Magazine (pg. 36) - featuring Professor and Founding Chair Oladele A. Ogunseitan Last year, the world generated nearly 50 million metric tons of e-waste – nonworking electronics like computers, laptops, TVs and cellphones. To envision the enormity of this, imagine the weight of 15 million elephants. What happens to these obsolete devices, the people who recycle them and the limited natural resources needed to continuously manufacture new devices? Read More » 2 Article: The art of healthy persuasion - UCI researcher creates videos and messages to boost vaccination rates and cancer screenings She’s heard all the excuses. When it comes to colonoscopies, immunizations and other preventive measures, Suellen Hopfer is used to encountering rationalizations and resistance. Her job is to defuse the defenses. Bombarding folks with facts “isn’t going to motivate them,” says Hopfer, a UCI assistant professor of public health who specializes in medical and risk communication. Instead, she crafts videos and other messages that address real-life objections and fears with a blend of emotion, humor and FAQ-style nuggets of information. Read More » 3 ZotFunder: Please help us raise $13,550 to support 5 students researching the impacts of Fetal Alcohol Syndrome on children and families in Cape Town, South Africa! Prenatal Alcohol Exposure Research in South Africa - Please help us raise $13,550 to research the impacts of Fetal Alcohol Syndrome on children and families in Cape Town, South Africa! The raised funds will help off-set international travel costs for five UCI medical students (Sophia, Dorothy, Tyler, Jamie, Savannah) as they pursue global health research projects in Public Health Hello! Welcome to the Zotfunder page for Team South Africa! This fundraising campaign will support the efforts of five UCI School of Medicine students as we seek to research the impacts of prenatal alcohol exposure on children and their families in Cape Town, South Africa this summer. This project is being conducted under the supervision of Dr. Kristina Uban, PhD, Assistant Professor of Public Health at UCI as part of the Global Health Research, Education, and Translation Program. Read More » Strategic Plan DOWNLOAD Supporting Students Facing an Immigration Crisis The Program in Public Health has adopted the best practices for supporting students facing an immigration crisis that have been recommended by the Committee for Equity and Inclusion for Undocumented Students (CEIUS). Several of these best practices include preventive strategies to support equity and inclusion, which are supplemented by recommendations for supporting students experiencing an immigration crisis. More information about best practices for UCI faculty, staff, and teaching assistants can be found below. DOWNLOAD BEST PRACTICES FOR: Departments/Faculty Schools Give to UCI Public Health: Our mission is to create, integrate, and translate population-based knowledge into preventive strategies for reducing the societal burden of human disease and disability through excellence in research, education and public service. We value your awareness and support. Your gift is appreciated and helps us achieve our mission. Learn More LEARN MORE DONATE NOW Feature: OC Health Indicators: Data courtesy of Orange County's Healthier Together initiative Loading... UCI Public Health is a member of Orange County's Healthier Together, a community-wide initiative that aligns public and private resources within the public health system to improve health for all communities in Orange County. One of the Best (Top 10) MPH Programs for International Students Best Graduate School for Health Ranked in 10 programs and 1 specialty Accredited by the Council on Education for Public Health A Partner Organization of OC PICH: Orange County Partnerships to Improve Community Health (OC PICH) is a collaborative project with non-profits, cities, the local health agency, and educational institutions in Orange County, CA. Our project focuses on increasing the community's access to healthy foods, physical activity, active transportation, and water consumption. Home: Undergraduate Overview Majors in Public Health Minor in Public Health Certificate in College Population Health Promotion and Wellness Global Health Certificate Undergraduate Research Practicum (log in) Student Affairs Graduate Overview Master of Public Health (MPH) Ph.D. Programs Joint Programs Graduate Practicum (log in) About About UCI Public Health External Advisory Board Operational Committees Accreditation Alumni Careers Contact Hours & Location Contacts & Organization Chart Administration downloads Employment Faculty Public Health Faculty Affiliated Faculty Lecturers Resources for Faculty giving seminars Tools & Apps Seminars & Events Newsletter News University of California-Irvine Named One of the Best MPH Programs for International Students Video: Thailand-Myanmar Malaria Project, BME Senior Design - Students from UC Irvine study and observe the spread, diagnosis, and treatment of Malaria in Thailand and Myanmar -- project made possible in collaboration with Dr. Guiyun Yan, UCIPH Dr. Alana LeBrón named 2018-2019 "Honoree for Teaching Excellence” from the UC Irvine Division of Teaching Excellence and Innovation to be presented at the Annual Celebration of Teaching ceremony, Thur. 4/18/19, at 4:30-7 pm in Student Center, Doheny ABCD Alzheimer’s Orange County : The Multi-disciplinary Cognitive Disorders Study Group Meetings will be held twice per month on the FIRST TUESDAY and THIRD WEDNESDAY from 9:00 a.m. to 10:30 a.m. Course: Health Care Analytics -- Data Assets and Data Strategy --- Get the tools necessary to understand an organization's strategy, identify gaps, define the various roles, and adapt health data strategies to evolving health care practices Publication: Grief in Veterans: An Unexplored Consequence of War - by Pauline Lubens PhD, MPH, and Roxane Cohen Silver PhD Public Health Honors Research UROP awards PUBLIC HEALTH CAREER PANEL - Tuesday, February 5 4:00 pm – 5:30 pm in the Career Pathways Training Room - Register Today - Seating is Limited The Career Discovery Series brings together alumni and professionals to share details about their career Visiting international scholar Sayambhu Saita wins award for poster (with UCI Public Health Prof. Daniel M. Parker, Ph.D as senior author) at the Joint International Tropical Medicine Meeting in Bangkok More News & Events Contact Us UCI Public Health Anteater Instruction & Research Offices (AIRB) 653 E. Peltason Dr. 2nd Floor University of California, Irvine Irvine, CA 92697-3957 USA Tel: (949) 824-2358 Fax: (949) 824-2039 Quick links Student Affairs Library Resources Employment Downloads Admissions MPH Ph.D Academic Plans Undergraduate Plans MPH Plans Public Health Association PHA @ UCI PHA (GRADUATE) College of Health Sciences: Bylaws Research Programs GHREAT PROGRAM College Population Health Promotion and Wellness Green Materials Program Global Health LIVE Virtual Graduate Seminar Spatial Epidemiology Research Group Geo. Hazards & Disasters Responsible Conduct of Research Affiliated Programs Center for Disaster Medical Sciences Center for Occupational and Environmental Health Dept. of Epidemiology Grand Challenges in Global Health Initiative Institute for Clinical and Translational Science Institute for Transportation Studies PSW Regional Centers of Excellence The Urban Water Research Center Copyright © 2019 The Regents of the University of California. All rights reserved. Site Admin.