6779
sdcl.ics.uci.edu
Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory SDCL Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory Calico ...an intuitive sketch-based design environment for use on touch-based devices... PorchLight ...a desktop bug tracker interface designed to support effective bug triaging... Crowd Development ...a cloud IDE for building software with a crowd... CodeExchange ...supporting iterative internet-scale code search... Crowd Debugging How hundreds of workers can help locate faults in software? CrowdDesign ...crowd sourced software designs [...] Welcome The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory focuses on understanding and advancing the roles of design, collaboration, and education in software development. We primarily employ a tool-driven methodology, exploring a broad range of research questions by designing and building novel software tools. Our work seeks to impact everyday practice by using empirical and field studies to inform tool design. Mar 19 4 Lunch Meeting with Consuelo Lopez Fromer student of the SDC Laboratory, Consuelo Lopez visited us today from Buenos Aires, Argentina. During the lunch meeting, the group discussed her career, and ongoing research from Elahe Paikari through Adriana Meza Soria, to David Kutas. From left to right: André, Adriana, Consuelo, Elahe. Tags: Former Student, meeting, Visit Posted in News by David Kutas. Comments Off on Lunch Meeting with Consuelo Lopez Jan 19 11 Philip Guo to Visit SDCL Philip J. Guo, Assistant Professor of Cognitive Science UC San Diego visited the Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory where he discussed KnoCap projectt developments with Adriana Meza Soria, PhD student of Prof. André van der Hoek. Adriana introduces KnoCap to Philip Guo and André. Philip then continued his tour at the DBH, by lecturing about “Learning Programming at Scale: Code, Data and Environment” in the format of the Informatics Seminar Series Winter 2019. More about Philip: http://www.pgbovine.net/ More about Adriana: https://www.ics.uci.edu/~amezasor/ Tags: meeting Posted in News by David Kutas. Comments Off on Philip Guo to Visit SDCL Dec 18 22 Saying Goodbye and Welcome The SDC Lab has finished collaborating with the current group of students from South Korea. In the meantime, the 2018 Fall Quarter has also finished. Work continues by the lab members, but maybe with a slower pace as the holidays are around the corner. Goodbye Lunch at the UTC. Tags: Collaboration, Korean Students, meeting, Research, South Korea Posted in News by David Kutas. Comments Off on Saying Goodbye and Welcome Oct 18 26 Ice Cream Meeting – SDCL Social As part of the renewal process of the Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory we started a new experimental initiative: the Ice Cream Meetings on every Friday! The non-formal structure of the “meeting” helps team building, the discussion about ongoing research and everyday life around the lab. Tags: ice cream, meeting Posted in News by David Kutas. Comments Off on Ice Cream Meeting – SDCL Social Oct 18 16 New Members and Tech at the SDCL Eduardo Santana de Almeida, Ph.D. is joining our lab from Brazil, he is an associate professor in the software engineering area at Federal University of Bahia. Learn more about him on his website: http://homes.dcc.ufba.br/~esa/ Eduardo with the new 27″ monitor. David Kutas is joining us as a PhD student in Software Engineering. His primary interest lies in software visualisation. Learn more about David on his blog: http://blog.davidkutas.com/ David in the lab – October, 2018. We are glad to welcome our new team members and that the space of the Software Design and Collaboration Lab is getting crowded again. We hope to join our energies to accelerate delivering meaningful new knowledge to the software engineering community. Tags: Lab Updates Posted in News by David Kutas. Comments Off on New Members and Tech at the SDCL Jul 18 25 Marian Petre in collaboration with SDCL Marian Petre is a Professor at Open University in England. She is interested in expertise in software design. We are glad to welcome her to work with us one more time, here a picture of how she works every day towards a new creation! Photograph taken by André van der Hoek Posted in Visit by Adriana Meza Soria. Comments Off on Marian Petre in collaboration with SDCL Jul 18 25 Adriana’s ICSE-2018 presentation Adriana, Software Engineering Ph.D. student in our lab, presented a poster for CHASE workshop at ICSE 2018 *( CHASE-2018). * Toward Collecting and Delivering Knowledge for Software Design at the Whiteboard Authors: Adriana Meza Soria and André van der Hoek Photograph taken by André van der Hoek (thanks!) Posted in conference Travel by Adriana Meza Soria. Comments Off on Adriana’s ICSE-2018 presentation Jun 17 2 Congratulations to Thomas Kwak! Thomas successfully defended his master’s thesis on improving mining performance for Internet code search engines! Posted in News by andre. Comments Off on Congratulations to Thomas Kwak! May 16 22 Volunteering at ICSE 2016 Consuelo* with other ICSE volunteers. Mission accomplished! * standing third from left to right. Posted in conference by andre. Comments Off on Volunteering at ICSE 2016 May 16 17 Consuelo’s ICSE-2016 presentation Consuelo presenting our research* on Crowd Design in ICSE crowdsourcing workshop (CSI-SE-2016). * Toward Microtask Crowdsourcing Software Design Work Authors: Edgar R.Q. Weidema, Consuelo López, Sahand Nayebaziz, Fernando Spanghero and André van der Hoek Photograph taken by Thomas La Toza (thanks!) Posted in conference Travel by andre. Comments Off on Consuelo’s ICSE-2016 presentation Next Page » Collaborators Anita Sarma Brandy Aven Crista Lopes David Redmiles Jim Herbsleb Laura Dabbish Linda Argote Marian Petre Na Meng Thomas LaToza Home Research CrowdDesign Crowd Debugging CodeExchange PorchLight Past projects Lighthouse Calico Code Orb Crowd Development Papers Technical reports Dissertations Books Opportunities MDP Lab Study Materials and Data KnoCap People Previous members Sponsors Contact Directions The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory is housed in the Department of Informatics in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences at the University of California, Irvine. Copyright © SDCL | eDegree° Theme by Top Blog Formula on WordPress | Log In