6882
sdcl.ics.uci.edu/category/news
News – Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory SDCL Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory News Lunch Meeting with Consuelo Lopez Posted by David Kutas on March 4, 2019 at 4:25 pm Fromer student of the SDC Laboratory, Consuelo Lopez visited us today from Buenos Aires, Argentina. During the lunch meeting, the group discussed her career, and ongoing research from Elahe Paikari through Adriana Meza Soria, to David Kutas. Philip Guo to Visit SDCL Posted by David Kutas on January 11, 2019 at 4:14 pm Philip J. Guo, Assistant Professor of Cognitive Science UC San Diego visited the Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory where he discussed KnoCap projectt developments with Adriana Meza Soria, PhD student of Prof. André van der Hoek. Philip then continued his tour at the DBH, by lecturing about “Learning Programming at Scale: Code, Data and Environment” […] Saying Goodbye and Welcome Posted by David Kutas on December 22, 2018 at 11:57 pm The SDC Lab has finished collaborating with the current group of students from South Korea. In the meantime, the 2018 Fall Quarter has also finished. Work continues by the lab members, but maybe with a slower pace as the holidays are around the corner. Ice Cream Meeting – SDCL Social Posted by David Kutas on October 26, 2018 at 3:22 pm As part of the renewal process of the Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory we started a new experimental initiative: the Ice Cream Meetings on every Friday! The non-formal structure of the “meeting” helps team building, the discussion about ongoing research and everyday life around the lab. New Members and Tech at the SDCL Posted by David Kutas on October 16, 2018 at 9:42 am Eduardo Santana de Almeida, Ph.D. is joining our lab from Brazil, he is an associate professor in the software engineering area at Federal University of Bahia. Learn more about him on his website: http://homes.dcc.ufba.br/~esa/ Eduardo with the new 27″ monitor. David Kutas is joining us as a PhD student in Software Engineering. His primary interest lies […] Congratulations to Thomas Kwak! Posted by andre on June 2, 2017 at 10:12 pm Thomas successfully defended his master’s thesis on improving mining performance for Internet code search engines! SDCL team in data science hackathon Posted by andre on May 17, 2016 at 1:00 pm Thomas and Christian teamed up with undergraduate students Sreeja, Sid, and Chris to develop a tool that helps visualize mobility patterns of devices and apps on the city of New York. More about our project here: Tool wiki Tired happy faces after coding for 28 hours straight. Congratulations to Arturo Di Lecce! Posted by andre on April 28, 2016 at 5:30 pm Arturo recently defended and passed his MS thesis in crowd development! Affinity diagram session! Posted by andre on March 15, 2016 at 9:01 pm We have just categorized a few dozen sketches produced by a crowd of designers. Lee was awarded the IBM fellowship Posted by andre on March 11, 2016 at 1:51 pm Lee Martie (5th year Ph.D. student) was awarded the IBM fellowship. The IBM Ph.D. Fellowship Awards Program is an intensely competitive worldwide program, which honors exceptional Ph.D. students who have an interest in solving problems that are important to IBM and fundamental to innovation in many academic disciplines and areas of study (more information can […] Next Page » Collaborators Anita Sarma Brandy Aven Crista Lopes David Redmiles Jim Herbsleb Laura Dabbish Linda Argote Marian Petre Na Meng Thomas LaToza Home Research CrowdDesign Crowd Debugging CodeExchange PorchLight Past projects Lighthouse Calico Code Orb Crowd Development Papers Technical reports Dissertations Books Opportunities MDP Lab Study Materials and Data KnoCap People Previous members Sponsors Contact Directions The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory is housed in the Department of Informatics in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences at the University of California, Irvine. Copyright © SDCL | eDegree° Theme by Top Blog Formula on WordPress | Log In