6883
sdcl.ics.uci.edu/category/news/page/2
News – Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory SDCL Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory News Congratulations Dr. Gerald! Posted by andre on March 6, 2016 at 2:58 pm Gerald Bortis defended and passed his PhD Thesis dissertation titled “PorchLight: A Tag-based Approach to Bug Triaging”. The defense took place last Friday and the committee was formed by André van der Hoek (Chair), Crista Lopes and James Jones. Congratulations Dr. Gerald! Congratulations, Sara! Posted by andre on March 2, 2016 at 12:03 pm Sara Triplett defended and passed her MS Thesis today. The tile of her talk was “Design Workspaces: Preserving and Recovering Meaning in Groups of Sketches” and the committee was formed by André van der Hoek (Chair), Marian Petre and James Jones. Congratulations Sara! Crowdsourcing affinity diagrams (again!) Posted by andre on February 25, 2016 at 5:48 pm We redecorated the conference room! We have just categorized around 250 sketches the CrowdDesign team collected in their second and latest experiment. It took 2h for a crowd of five people to do the job! We all enjoyed pizza after the hard work. New Scholarship Posted by andre on January 20, 2016 at 5:44 pm Congratulations to Consuelo López, who was recently granted the 2016 Miguel Velez scholarship. Congratulations, Lee Martie! Posted by andre on January 20, 2016 at 5:43 pm Lee Martie defended and passed his PhD Topic Proposal on Tuesday. The tile of his talk was “Supporting Iterative Internet-Scale Code Search” and the committee was formed by André van der Hoek (Chair), Cristina Lopes and James Jones. Congratulations Lee! SimSE Posted by andre on December 12, 2015 at 10:09 pm A blast from the past. SimSE, developed by one of the very first graduate students of SDCL – Emily Navarro, continues to be popular. Check out some youtube videos of folks using it! Crowdsourcing affinity diagrams Posted by andre on December 9, 2015 at 4:37 pm We have just categorized around 500 sketches the CrowdDesign team collected in their latest experiment. It took 3h for a crowd of six people to do the job! We all enjoyed pizza after the hard work. Welcome Thomas Kwak! Posted by andre on November 17, 2015 at 5:06 pm Thomas Kwak is a new UCI Masters student who will be joining the code search team to do his Masters thesis! We wish Martin Medina well! Posted by andre on November 1, 2015 at 11:10 pm We are glad to have had Martin and wish him well back home! Martin and Lee were still hard at work on Martin’s last day… they started to look a little weird though. Welcome Gabriel! Posted by andre on June 15, 2015 at 10:58 am Gabriel is an undergrad student who will be working on CrowdCode with Arturo, Fabio, and Thomas. « Previous Page Next Page » Collaborators Anita Sarma Brandy Aven Crista Lopes David Redmiles Jim Herbsleb Laura Dabbish Linda Argote Marian Petre Na Meng Thomas LaToza Home Research CrowdDesign Crowd Debugging CodeExchange PorchLight Past projects Lighthouse Calico Code Orb Crowd Development Papers Technical reports Dissertations Books Opportunities MDP Lab Study Materials and Data KnoCap People Previous members Sponsors Contact Directions The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory is housed in the Department of Informatics in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences at the University of California, Irvine. Copyright © SDCL | eDegree° Theme by Top Blog Formula on WordPress | Log In