6884
sdcl.ics.uci.edu/category/news/page/3
News – Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory SDCL Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory News End of Quarter Lunch Posted by andre on June 15, 2015 at 10:13 am All together to celebrate the end of a very busy quarter . Summer quarter is promising. Many projects going on and lab full of motivated people. Congratulations Thomas! Posted by andre on June 9, 2015 at 5:46 pm Thomas accepted a tenure-track position as a Assistant Professor at the George Mason University. The SDCL in ICSE 2015 Posted by andre on June 9, 2015 at 5:42 pm Thomas presented two papers in ICSE [1][2] and co-organized the second International Workshop on Crowdsourcing in Software Engineering (CSISE-2015) André presented a position paper [3] and was part of the panel titled “The Future of Crowdsourcing in Software Engineering”. [1] Borrowing from the crowd: A study of recombination in software design competitions, TD LaToza, M […] Welcome Iago and Nathan! Posted by andre on June 9, 2015 at 5:20 pm Iago Moreira and Nathan Martins are joining us for the Summer. Nathan has just finished his one year interchange program in North Dakota State University. Iago is half way through his program in Rochester Institute of Technology. They are both sponsored by the Brazilian Science without Borders program. .. and they are already working with […] Welcome Edgar! Posted by andre on April 16, 2015 at 9:55 pm Edgar is a new master student joining the lab. He is currently interested in investigating approaches to crowdsource software design. Fernando and his team won best presentation at iConference Posted by andre on March 28, 2015 at 4:40 pm “Racial Violence Archive: Public Information System on Incidents of Violence during the Civil Rights Period” by Fernando Spanghero, Hosub Lee, Michael Bellato, Sowmya Jain, Roeland Singer-heinze, Ya-Wen Lin, Sunakshi Gupta, and Geoff Ward. The faculty Sponsors were Alfred Kobsa and Geoff Ward. Here’s a teaser: http://owl.li/KPXjN Paper accepted in MSR-2015! Posted by andre on March 19, 2015 at 10:43 pm Congratulations Lee!! L. Martie and A. van der Hoek, “Sameness: An Experiment in Code Search”, Proceedings of the 12th Working Conference on Mining Software Repositories. Crowdsourcing affinity diagrams? Posted by andre on March 19, 2015 at 10:38 pm We have just categorized 441 comments Lee Martie collected in his latest experiment with CodeExchange. It took 1h15min for a crowd of nine people to do the job! We won the Reddit Hackathon! Posted by andre on February 9, 2015 at 1:25 pm The competition happened on Jan 10th and is part of a new data science initiative aimed at coordinating UCI scientists who are working on various aspects of data science. Our team was composed by Christian Adriano (SDCL), Vijay Palepu (Spider Lab), and Rianne Conijn (visitor Master student). Welcome Fernando Posted by andre on February 6, 2015 at 11:10 am Welcome Fernando! Fernando Spanghero is a new master student joining our research group. His interested in software design, more specifically in developing sketching tools. « Previous Page Next Page » Collaborators Anita Sarma Brandy Aven Crista Lopes David Redmiles Jim Herbsleb Laura Dabbish Linda Argote Marian Petre Na Meng Thomas LaToza Home Research CrowdDesign Crowd Debugging CodeExchange PorchLight Past projects Lighthouse Calico Code Orb Crowd Development Papers Technical reports Dissertations Books Opportunities MDP Lab Study Materials and Data KnoCap People Previous members Sponsors Contact Directions The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory is housed in the Department of Informatics in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences at the University of California, Irvine. Copyright © SDCL | eDegree° Theme by Top Blog Formula on WordPress | Log In