6886
sdcl.ics.uci.edu/category/news/page/5
News – Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory SDCL Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory News Congratulations to the UC Irvine Design Competition Winners! Posted by andre on July 7, 2014 at 10:45 pm Congratulations to Ulyana Skladchikova and Matias Giorgio, two of the winners in the UC Irvine Software Design Competition. Participants first produced a design – describing either a system’s architecture and design or its user experience – and were then given some of the designs produced by others, producing a second revised design incorporating insights they […] Grant on Crowd Programming Posted by andre on June 13, 2014 at 5:09 pm We’re very happy to announce that the National Science Foundation has awarded SDCL a $1.4M grant to investigate the application of microtask crowdsourcing to programming. More details in the official NSF announcement. Welcome Danilo and William Posted by andre on June 13, 2014 at 4:29 pm We have two new members in SDCL for the summer: Danilo is B.Sc. Student majoring in Computer Engineering at the Federal University of Sao Carlos, Brazil. He is a former exchange student at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign during Fall 2013 and Spring 2014. He will work with Christian on how to apply crowd […] Meet the SDCL Beowulf Cluster Posted by andre on May 18, 2014 at 4:35 pm We needed to do some serious data mining on a budget, so we built a 45 Raspberry Pi Beowulf cluster. It’s working great and is a welcomed member of the lab :). SCALE meeting at UC Irvine Posted by andre on May 16, 2014 at 2:50 pm UC Irvine hosted a meeting of the SCALE research group. SDCL had posters on several research projects. Lots of great discussion! Won 2nd Place in 2014 Annual Autism Appjam Posted by andre on April 29, 2014 at 5:56 am Mengyao’s team (group with Kate Ringland, Oliver Haimson, Nathan Major and Kalyda Tokhi), DanceCraft, won 2nd place and the Social Media Award in the 2014 annual autism appjam. Check more information about the project here: http://dancecraftforautism.wordpress.com/ Visitors from The Netherlands Posted by andre on April 8, 2014 at 12:00 pm Luxi and Micky are master students from the University of Amsterdam. They will spend four months with us researching how to crowdsource software design activities. Welcome! Tablet tower to server tower Posted by andre on April 1, 2014 at 3:50 pm What do you do when you need to do a lot of parallel data processing but cloud services are just too expensive? Turn your lab’s tablets into servers, of course! Marian Petre visit Posted by andre on March 30, 2014 at 3:07 pm Our long-term collaborator Marian Petre from The Open University visited us last week. Her insights are always much appreciated and we already look forward to her next visit! Welcome Mengyao and John Posted by andre on February 3, 2014 at 11:36 am Mengyao is a first year Ph.D. student in Informatics. She is interested in doing research in design practice, more specifically the creative nature of it. John is a first year M.S. student in Computer Science. He is interested in doing research in software architecture, particularly the field of software as a service (SaaS). Welcome! « Previous Page Next Page » Collaborators Anita Sarma Brandy Aven Crista Lopes David Redmiles Jim Herbsleb Laura Dabbish Linda Argote Marian Petre Na Meng Thomas LaToza Home Research CrowdDesign Crowd Debugging CodeExchange PorchLight Past projects Lighthouse Calico Code Orb Crowd Development Papers Technical reports Dissertations Books Opportunities MDP Lab Study Materials and Data KnoCap People Previous members Sponsors Contact Directions The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory is housed in the Department of Informatics in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences at the University of California, Irvine. Copyright © SDCL | eDegree° Theme by Top Blog Formula on WordPress | Log In