6889
sdcl.ics.uci.edu/category/news/page/8
News – Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory SDCL Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory News Welcome Michele! Posted by andre on September 11, 2012 at 2:54 pm We are very excited to welcome Michele Bonazza to the laboratory. He is joining us for four months as a visitor from the University of Padova, Italy, and will be developing an Android version of Calico (!) Welcome Christian! Posted by andre on September 11, 2012 at 2:53 pm We are very excited to welcome Christian Adriano to the laboratory. He is joining us as a new Ph.D. student from Sao Paolo, Brazil. ISR Research Forum Posted by andre on May 18, 2012 at 3:32 pm The SDCL was an active participant in the ISR Research Forum, with numerous demos given during the open house and lots of good connections being made. All in all a fun day, especially with the great feedback we received on our projects. Brazilian collaborators visit Posted by andre on April 16, 2012 at 8:40 pm SDCL friends Claudia Werner, Leo Murta, and Marcelo Schots visit us from UFRJ in Rio and UFF in Niteroi this week, exchanging research ideas, exploring collaborations, and working on a joint paper. Welcome Alfredo Motta Posted by andre on April 2, 2012 at 8:48 pm We welcome Alfredo Motta to our lab; Alfredo is visiting us for four months from Politecnico di Milano, and is exploring how designers can be assisted with feedback about their designs in progress. Papers accepted Posted by andre on March 31, 2012 at 10:00 pm Congrats to Lee Martie for getting a paper accepted in the MSR 2012 Challenge track, and Nick Mangano for getting a paper accepted in JASE [link]. Well done! Marian Petre visit Posted by andre on March 31, 2012 at 10:11 am Marian Petre from The Open University visited us for this week, working on a book to be published out of the SPSD 2010 workshop and generally giving us feedback on all of our projects. Welcome Thomas LaToza Posted by andre on March 7, 2012 at 8:54 pm We are very excited to welcome Thomas LaToza to the laboratory. He will be joining us this Fall from CMU, where he just completed his Ph.D. (congrats!). SDCL hosts SCALE Posted by andre on March 2, 2012 at 8:51 pm Yesterday and today, the SDCL hosted the SCALE meeting for our collaborative grant with CMU and UNL. Fourteen students presented their work and received feedback from the group as a whole, with various new ideas and joint projects emerging. Calico demo available Posted by andre on February 12, 2012 at 6:40 pm A demo of Calico is now available. Please visit the Calico research page, then scroll to the Demo section for details. « Previous Page Next Page » Collaborators Anita Sarma Brandy Aven Crista Lopes David Redmiles Jim Herbsleb Laura Dabbish Linda Argote Marian Petre Na Meng Thomas LaToza Home Research CrowdDesign Crowd Debugging CodeExchange PorchLight Past projects Lighthouse Calico Code Orb Crowd Development Papers Technical reports Dissertations Books Opportunities MDP Lab Study Materials and Data KnoCap People Previous members Sponsors Contact Directions The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory is housed in the Department of Informatics in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences at the University of California, Irvine. Copyright © SDCL | eDegree° Theme by Top Blog Formula on WordPress | Log In