6890
sdcl.ics.uci.edu/category/news/page/9
News – Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory SDCL Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory News SDCL on GitHub Posted by andre on December 15, 2011 at 1:56 am We are pleased to announce that Calico’s and Lighthouse’s repositories have been moved to SDCL’s new GitHub account! We are pleased to announce that Calico (http://sdcl.ics.uci.edu/research/calico) and Lighthouse (http://sdcl.ics.uci.edu/research/lighthouse) are now on GitHub (https://github.com/uci-sdcl/lighthouse) ! We are pleased to announce that Calico (http://sdcl.ics.uci.edu/research/calico) and Lighthouse (http://sdcl.ics.uci.edu/research/lighthouse) are now on GitHub (https://github.com/uci-sdcl/lighthouse) ! SEWORLD @ SDCL Posted by andre on November 9, 2011 at 3:05 pm The SDCL is now in charge of moderating and administrating the ACM SIGSOFT SEWORLD mailing list. The mailing list, started over 15 years ago at the University of Colorado at Boulder, serves the Software Engineering community through the dissemination of time-sensitive information relevant to the field of software engineering research (http://www.sigsoft.org/seworld/). We are very exited […] Visiting Google Posted by andre on October 22, 2011 at 11:53 am We had a fun visit to Google, discussing possible directions for Calico with some SDCL’s former members who now work there. Thanks Ping, Chris, Eugen, and Chris! Another NSF grant Posted by andre on August 25, 2011 at 10:43 pm We are delighted to announce that the NSF has awarded the SDCL a 2011 IIS grant in support of our work on distributed collaboration; the grant is entitled “Large-Scale Human-Centered Coordination Systems to Support Interdependent Tasks in Context ” and is joint work with Jim Herbsleb, Laura Dabbish, and Linda Argote at Carnegie Mellon University, […] New tablets! Posted by andre on August 22, 2011 at 9:00 pm Our purchase of 21 new ASUS EEE EP121 tablets has arrived! These tablets are great, and Nick already got to try them out when the Brea Olinda Global IT Academy students visited our department today. NSF grant for Calico Posted by andre on August 6, 2011 at 10:41 am We are delighted to announce that the NSF has awarded the SDCL a 2011 CCF grant in support of our work on Calico; the grant is entitled “Software Design Sketching”. Graduates! Posted by andre on June 12, 2011 at 6:59 pm Congratulations to Nilmax Moura (M.S.), Robert Simpson (B.S.), and Danielle Song (B.S.). We will miss their contributions and presence in our lab! Brazilian collaborators Posted by andre on June 10, 2011 at 9:40 pm Claudia Werner and Chessman Correa from UFRJ and Leo Murta from UFF visited us for a day on their way to South Korea. ARCS dinner Posted by andre on April 22, 2011 at 12:29 pm Nick Mangano presents Calico at the annual celebration of ARCS scholarship recipients. Nick is the third SDCL member to receive an ARCS scholarship. Microsoft SEIF Award Posted by andre on April 18, 2011 at 12:21 pm We are proud to announce that Microsoft has awarded the SDCL a Microsoft Software Engineering Innovation Foundation Award in support of our work on Calico. « Previous Page Next Page » Collaborators Anita Sarma Brandy Aven Crista Lopes David Redmiles Jim Herbsleb Laura Dabbish Linda Argote Marian Petre Na Meng Thomas LaToza Home Research CrowdDesign Crowd Debugging CodeExchange PorchLight Past projects Lighthouse Calico Code Orb Crowd Development Papers Technical reports Dissertations Books Opportunities MDP Lab Study Materials and Data KnoCap People Previous members Sponsors Contact Directions The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory is housed in the Department of Informatics in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences at the University of California, Irvine. Copyright © SDCL | eDegree° Theme by Top Blog Formula on WordPress | Log In