6901
sdcl.ics.uci.edu/page/4
Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory SDCL Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory Calico ...an intuitive sketch-based design environment for use on touch-based devices... PorchLight ...a desktop bug tracker interface designed to support effective bug triaging... Crowd Development ...a cloud IDE for building software with a crowd... CodeExchange ...supporting iterative internet-scale code search... Crowd Debugging How hundreds of workers can help locate faults in software? CrowdDesign ...crowd sourced software designs [...] Welcome The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory focuses on understanding and advancing the roles of design, collaboration, and education in software development. We primarily employ a tool-driven methodology, exploring a broad range of research questions by designing and building novel software tools. Our work seeks to impact everyday practice by using empirical and field studies to inform tool design. Apr 15 16 Welcome Edgar! Edgar is a new master student joining the lab. He is currently interested in investigating approaches to crowdsource software design. Posted in News by andre. Comments Off on Welcome Edgar! Mar 15 28 Fernando and his team won best presentation at iConference “Racial Violence Archive: Public Information System on Incidents of Violence during the Civil Rights Period” by Fernando Spanghero, Hosub Lee, Michael Bellato, Sowmya Jain, Roeland Singer-heinze, Ya-Wen Lin, Sunakshi Gupta, and Geoff Ward. The faculty Sponsors were Alfred Kobsa and Geoff Ward. Here’s a teaser: http://owl.li/KPXjN Posted in News by andre. Comments Off on Fernando and his team won best presentation at iConference Mar 15 19 Paper accepted in MSR-2015! Congratulations Lee!! L. Martie and A. van der Hoek, “Sameness: An Experiment in Code Search”, Proceedings of the 12th Working Conference on Mining Software Repositories. Posted in News by andre. Comments Off on Paper accepted in MSR-2015! Mar 15 19 Crowdsourcing affinity diagrams? We have just categorized 441 comments Lee Martie collected in his latest experiment with CodeExchange. It took 1h15min for a crowd of nine people to do the job! Posted in News by andre. Comments Off on Crowdsourcing affinity diagrams? Feb 15 9 We won the Reddit Hackathon! The competition happened on Jan 10th and is part of a new data science initiative aimed at coordinating UCI scientists who are working on various aspects of data science. Our team was composed by Christian Adriano (SDCL), Vijay Palepu (Spider Lab), and Rianne Conijn (visitor Master student). Posted in News by andre. Comments Off on We won the Reddit Hackathon! Feb 15 6 Welcome Fernando Welcome Fernando! Fernando Spanghero is a new master student joining our research group. His interested in software design, more specifically in developing sketching tools. Posted in News by andre. Comments Off on Welcome Fernando Feb 15 6 Welcome Martín Welcome Martín! Martín Medina is a new master student joining our research group. He has work experience in software development and he will be working with Lee Martie in CodeExchange project. Posted in News by andre. Comments Off on Welcome Martín Dec 14 5 Congrats Dr. Nick Lopez Congrats are in order to Nick Lopez, who just finished defending his Ph.D. dissertation on the impact of non-determinism of LDA in software engineering! Afterwards, there was a post-defense celebratory lunch! Posted in News by andre. Comments Off on Congrats Dr. Nick Lopez Nov 14 20 Nick dissertation award! Nick Mangano receives his ACM SIGSOFT Outstanding Dissertation Award at FSE 2014 in Hong Kong, and is supported by Lee and Thomas who are both there as well to present at the Context workshop. Posted in News by andre. Comments Off on Nick dissertation award! Oct 14 25 PLATEAU 2014 Thomas visited rainy Portland to co-chair the Fifth Workshop on the Evaluation and Usability of Programming Languages and Tools at SPLASH 2014. There were many great talks on topics ranging from making programming more social through newsfeeds to an analysis of how race detection tools benefit developers. Josh Bloch, designer of the Java collections framework and author of Effective Java, gave an awesome keynote on the history of the API, including one of the most prescient two page papers ever written. New this year was a track for hypotheses papers, explicitly detailing the expecting practical usability implications of language features and tools on the practice of programming. For example, Jonathan Aldrich gave a retrospective of his work on programming language design for protocols, detailing hypotheses about its practical benefits for developers. The day concluded with some animated group brainstorming on the usability effects of types, program analysis, API documentation, and IDEs. Posted in Uncategorized by andre. Comments Off on PLATEAU 2014 « Previous Page Next Page » Collaborators Anita Sarma Brandy Aven Crista Lopes David Redmiles Jim Herbsleb Laura Dabbish Linda Argote Marian Petre Na Meng Thomas LaToza Home Research CrowdDesign Crowd Debugging CodeExchange PorchLight Past projects Lighthouse Calico Code Orb Crowd Development Papers Technical reports Dissertations Books Opportunities MDP Lab Study Materials and Data KnoCap People Previous members Sponsors Contact Directions The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory is housed in the Department of Informatics in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences at the University of California, Irvine. Copyright © SDCL | eDegree° Theme by Top Blog Formula on WordPress | Log In