6902
sdcl.ics.uci.edu/page/5
Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory SDCL Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory Calico ...an intuitive sketch-based design environment for use on touch-based devices... PorchLight ...a desktop bug tracker interface designed to support effective bug triaging... Crowd Development ...a cloud IDE for building software with a crowd... CodeExchange ...supporting iterative internet-scale code search... Crowd Debugging How hundreds of workers can help locate faults in software? CrowdDesign ...crowd sourced software designs [...] Welcome The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory focuses on understanding and advancing the roles of design, collaboration, and education in software development. We primarily employ a tool-driven methodology, exploring a broad range of research questions by designing and building novel software tools. Our work seeks to impact everyday practice by using empirical and field studies to inform tool design. Oct 14 8 UIST 2014 Thomas attended UIST 2014 in Honolulu, presenting his paper on Microtask programming: building software with a crowd. There were a number of interesting papers related to programming tools and crowdsourcing. SDCL also had an entry in the UIST 2014 Analog Fabrication Sandcastle Competition. Posted in Travel by andre. Comments Off on UIST 2014 Oct 14 8 Welcome Consuelo Welcome Consuelo! Consuelo Lopez is a new master student joining our research group. She has work experience in software quality and she is currently interested in developing tools for software design. Posted in News by andre. Comments Off on Welcome Consuelo Sep 14 15 Welcome Arturo and Fabio Welcome Arturo Di Lecce and Fabio Ricci! Arturo and Fabio join us from Politecnico di Milano in Italy, where they are currently masters students. They’ll be visiting SDCL in sunny California for the next year and will be working on projects related to crowd programming and crowd design. Posted in News by andre. Comments Off on Welcome Arturo and Fabio Aug 14 22 Thesis Defense Congratulations Micky and Lucy have graduated cum laude with their M.S. degrees from the University of Amsterdam. The research they performed in SDCL uncovered interesting aspects of crowdsourcing software design. We are hard at work on a paper summarizing their findings. Posted in News by andre. Comments Off on Thesis Defense Congratulations Aug 14 12 CodeExchange – A new Java code search engine Program Java? Checkout CodeExchange, our new code search engine. Posted in News by andre. Comments Off on CodeExchange – A new Java code search engine Jul 14 30 Crowd Programming featured on ACM TechNews Our work on Crowd Programming was also featured on ACM TechNews and Techwire.net. Posted in News by andre. Comments Off on Crowd Programming featured on ACM TechNews Jul 14 24 Press on Crowd Programming Grant Our work on crowd programming has been briefly featured in both the UC Irinve News and in Campus Technology. Posted in News by andre. Comments Off on Press on Crowd Programming Grant Jul 14 13 Welcome Gleiph We have a new member in SDCL – Gleiph Ghiotto. Gleiph is a 3rd year PhD student from Fluminense Federal University. His advisor is professor Leonardo Murta. Gleiph will spend six months in our lab investigating merging and diffing approaches in open source repositories. Posted in News by andre. Comments Off on Welcome Gleiph Jul 14 7 Congratulations to the UC Irvine Design Competition Winners! Congratulations to Ulyana Skladchikova and Matias Giorgio, two of the winners in the UC Irvine Software Design Competition. Participants first produced a design – describing either a system’s architecture and design or its user experience – and were then given some of the designs produced by others, producing a second revised design incorporating insights they had learned from others. All of the designs were evaluated by a panel of experts, and we selected the best designs. Many of the designs were very strong, reflecting lots of hard work. Thanks to all who participated! Posted in News by andre. Comments Off on Congratulations to the UC Irvine Design Competition Winners! Jun 14 13 Grant on Crowd Programming We’re very happy to announce that the National Science Foundation has awarded SDCL a $1.4M grant to investigate the application of microtask crowdsourcing to programming. More details in the official NSF announcement. Posted in News by andre. Comments Off on Grant on Crowd Programming « Previous Page Next Page » Collaborators Anita Sarma Brandy Aven Crista Lopes David Redmiles Jim Herbsleb Laura Dabbish Linda Argote Marian Petre Na Meng Thomas LaToza Home Research CrowdDesign Crowd Debugging CodeExchange PorchLight Past projects Lighthouse Calico Code Orb Crowd Development Papers Technical reports Dissertations Books Opportunities MDP Lab Study Materials and Data KnoCap People Previous members Sponsors Contact Directions The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory is housed in the Department of Informatics in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences at the University of California, Irvine. Copyright © SDCL | eDegree° Theme by Top Blog Formula on WordPress | Log In