6903
sdcl.ics.uci.edu/page/8
Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory SDCL Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory Calico ...an intuitive sketch-based design environment for use on touch-based devices... PorchLight ...a desktop bug tracker interface designed to support effective bug triaging... Crowd Development ...a cloud IDE for building software with a crowd... CodeExchange ...supporting iterative internet-scale code search... Crowd Debugging How hundreds of workers can help locate faults in software? CrowdDesign ...crowd sourced software designs [...] Welcome The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory focuses on understanding and advancing the roles of design, collaboration, and education in software development. We primarily employ a tool-driven methodology, exploring a broad range of research questions by designing and building novel software tools. Our work seeks to impact everyday practice by using empirical and field studies to inform tool design. Sep 13 29 Welcome Namrata! We are very excited to welcome Namrata Puri to the laboratory. She is joining us as a new M.S. student and will be working on the UI of CodeExchange. Posted in News by andre. Comments Off on Welcome Namrata! Sep 13 18 Congrats Dr. Nick! Congratulations to Nick Mangano, who successfully defended his Ph.D. dissertation entitled ‘Calico: an early-phase software design tool’ on September 18, with a committee of Gary Olson, David Redmiles, and Marian Petre (in addition to his advisor, of course). After 6 years of very hard work, Nick is now off to make a commercial version of Calico that we hope will be a smashing success! Posted in News by andre. Comments Off on Congrats Dr. Nick! Sep 13 11 CrowdCode at CrowdConf Our abstract, CrowdCode: A platform for crowd development, was selected for both a poster and a talk at CrowdConf! Hope to see you in San Francisco. Posted in News by andre. Comments Off on CrowdCode at CrowdConf Jul 13 23 FuSE 2013 We attended the FuSE 2013 conference at Microsoft Research! Lots of interesting talks and engaging discussions on the future of software engineering. From left to right - Ankita, Chris, Hitesh, and Lee Posted in Travel by andre. Comments Off on FuSE 2013 May 13 30 ISR Research Forum SDCL is excited to welcome visitors to our lab for the ISR Research Forum. We have demos lined up of several of our research projects and are looking forward to exchanging ideas with both fellow researchers and developers from industry. If you’re in Irvine, we hope to see you there! Posted in News by andre. Comments Off on ISR Research Forum May 13 24 ICSE 2013 Six members of the SDCL, Gerald Bortis, Lee Martie, Christian Adriano, Nicolas Lopez, Thomas LaToza, and André van der Hoek, as well as one of our alumni, Alfredo Motta, attended ICSE 2013. We presented papers and posters in a variety of the tracks and subevents, and had great conversations with our colleagues. Posted in Travel by andre. Comments Off on ICSE 2013 May 13 17 Lionel Briand visit Lionel Briand visited the SDCL as part of his visit as an ISR Distinguished Speaker. Once more, we had great interactions and discussions about our research. Posted in News by andre. Comments Off on Lionel Briand visit Apr 13 19 Jane Cleland-Huang visit Another ISR Distinguished Speaker, another visitor to the SDCL. Jane Cleland-Huang from DePaul University visited our lab. She provided some great feedback on our research! Posted in News by andre. Comments Off on Jane Cleland-Huang visit Apr 13 1 SCALE meeting in snowy Pittsburgh Several SDCL members attended the SCALE meeting in Pittsburgh, presenting work in progress talks on crowd development, crowd debugging, social-technical code search, and topic mining. And we also had an opportunity to practice our snowball throwing skills. Posted in Travel by andre. Comments Off on SCALE meeting in snowy Pittsburgh Mar 13 14 Arie van Deursen visit We had a great time hosting Arie van Deursen from TU Delft in the Netherlands. We had a long demo session during which we provided us with some great feedback, and he gave a great talk as part of the ISR Distinguished Speaker series. Posted in News by andre. Comments Off on Arie van Deursen visit « Previous Page Next Page » Collaborators Anita Sarma Brandy Aven Crista Lopes David Redmiles Jim Herbsleb Laura Dabbish Linda Argote Marian Petre Na Meng Thomas LaToza Home Research CrowdDesign Crowd Debugging CodeExchange PorchLight Past projects Lighthouse Calico Code Orb Crowd Development Papers Technical reports Dissertations Books Opportunities MDP Lab Study Materials and Data KnoCap People Previous members Sponsors Contact Directions The Software Design and Collaboration Laboratory is housed in the Department of Informatics in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences at the University of California, Irvine. Copyright © SDCL | eDegree° Theme by Top Blog Formula on WordPress | Log In