7916
wics.ics.uci.edu
Women in Information and Computer Sciences Skip to content Women in Information and Computer Sciences Menu Home About What We Do Current Officers Awards and Accomplishments Previous Officers Events Events Calendar Blogs Conferences CWIC Socal 2018 Init (Together) Community Outreach About Community Outreach Bytes of Code Bytes of Code 2019 Bytes of Code Summer 2018 #innovate #innovate 2019 #innovate Spring 2018 #GirlsKnowCS 2018 Conference ExploreICS Join Us! Membership Signup Apply to WICS Committee Mentorship Program Contact Us Contact Form Support Us Search for: Search Women in Information and Computer Sciences Women in Information and Computer Sciences (WICS) is a social and professional non-profit organization at UCI established to help and encourage women to... Learn More About Community Outreach WICS is committed to helping students learn about computing. To this end, Outreach Committee continues to create curriculum and gather resources geared towards encouraging... Learn More Awards and Accomplishments July 25, 2018 WICS has won several awards over past year, and we're so incredibly grateful! UCI Anteater Awards On May 16, 2018,... Learn More Join Us! WICS meetings are open and free to all students at the University of... Learn More Apply to WICS Committee WICS Committee applications are now CLOSED. Stay in touch to apply when our applications... Learn More Mentorship Program Every year WICS hosts a mentorship program. We pair up upperclassmen mentors with... Learn More Latest Blogs 01 WICS Spring Quarter Week 7: Resume Workshop 02 WICS Spring Quarter Week 6: Study Session 03 WICS Spring Quarter Week 5: Intro to Web Design 04 WICS Spring Quarter Week 4: Battle of the Mentorships WICS meetings for Spring Quarter 2019 will be located at DBH 6011 on Mondays from 6:30pm – 8:00pm unless otherwise noted. Stay updated with details about events or opportunities on our Facebook page and join the WICS mailing list to receive e-mails containing the most recent announcements! Details about our events are updated each week, check out our event calendar for more info. To see what we’ve been up, check out our blogs. Thanks to our 2018-2019 sponsors! Gold Sponsors: Silver Sponsors: Partners: Questions or comments? Contact us Copyright © 2019 Women in Information and Computer Sciences All Rights Reserved | Archie by Theme Palace