8886
wics.ics.uci.edu/fall-quarter-2016-week-3-pwc-info-session
Fall Quarter 2016 Week 3: PwC Info Session – Women in Information and Computer Sciences Skip to content Women in Information and Computer Sciences Menu Home About What We Do Current Officers Awards and Accomplishments Previous Officers Events Events Calendar Blogs Conferences CWIC Socal 2018 Init (Together) Community Outreach About Community Outreach Bytes of Code Bytes of Code 2019 Bytes of Code Summer 2018 #innovate #innovate 2019 #innovate Spring 2018 #GirlsKnowCS 2018 Conference ExploreICS Join Us! Membership Signup Apply to WICS Committee Mentorship Program Contact Us Contact Form Support Us Search for: Search Fall Quarter 2016 Week 3: PwC Info Session On October 13th, WICS collaborated with PwC to host an info session to help people amp up their interviews! Around 24 attendees came to the event, giving everyone the chance to actively participate. The PwC representative, Kaitlin Cottrell, gave a brief presentation covering working at PwC and opportunities there before providing tips on how to ace an interview. Attendees then paired off to ask common interview questions to practice. After taking some time to provide feedback, participants discussed with the representative which questions they found difficult, and the representative suggested ways to give good answers. The discussion transitioned into a Q&A where attendees asked questions about the interview process and working at PwC. The event closed with a resume reviews and one-on-ones. The event was very successful. Everyone had fun while learning ways to help them land a job offer. Thank you to Kaitlin for coming and making the event so interactive and enjoyable, and thanks everyone to joined us for this event! Share this: Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window) Related Post navigation Fall Quarter 2016: Week 3 WICS Games Fall Quarter 2016 Week 4: Mentorship Reveal Questions or comments? Contact us Copyright © 2019 Women in Information and Computer Sciences All Rights Reserved | Archie by Theme Palace