8888
wics.ics.uci.edu/fall-quarter-2016-week-3-wics-games
Fall Quarter 2016: Week 3 WICS Games – Women in Information and Computer Sciences Skip to content Women in Information and Computer Sciences Menu Home About What We Do Current Officers Awards and Accomplishments Previous Officers Events Events Calendar Blogs Conferences CWIC Socal 2018 Init (Together) Community Outreach About Community Outreach Bytes of Code Bytes of Code 2019 Bytes of Code Summer 2018 #innovate #innovate 2019 #innovate Spring 2018 #GirlsKnowCS 2018 Conference ExploreICS Join Us! Membership Signup Apply to WICS Committee Mentorship Program Contact Us Contact Form Support Us Search for: Search Fall Quarter 2016: Week 3 WICS Games On the 10th of October, WICS hosted their annual WICS games! There were over 78 attendees who came to our event. Company representatives from Google, ProSky, SendGrid, Facebook, and Pariveda Solutions came to join us in our games. Representatives were separated into different groups with WICS members that competed against one another. We started the first round off by letting each group get to know their own members, having them create a group chant and post a funny picture on WICS social medias. There were three rounds of challenging problems that needed to be solved within a time limit. Near the end of the event, scores were calculated and everyone was given the chance to take home swag. This event was a huge success. Everyone enjoyed the games and had a fun time while also given the chance to meet company representatives and other UCI students. Thank you to all the representatives for playing with us and everyone who joined in on our event! Share this: Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window) Related Post navigation Fall Quarter 2016 Week 2: Social Meet and Greet Event Fall Quarter 2016 Week 3: PwC Info Session Questions or comments? Contact us Copyright © 2019 Women in Information and Computer Sciences All Rights Reserved | Archie by Theme Palace