8905
wics.ics.uci.edu/inittogether
Init (Together) 2013 – Women in Information and Computer Sciences Skip to content Women in Information and Computer Sciences Menu Home About What We Do Current Officers Awards and Accomplishments Previous Officers Events Events Calendar Blogs Conferences CWIC Socal 2018 Init (Together) Community Outreach About Community Outreach Bytes of Code Bytes of Code 2019 Bytes of Code Summer 2018 #innovate #innovate 2019 #innovate Spring 2018 #GirlsKnowCS 2018 Conference ExploreICS Join Us! Membership Signup Apply to WICS Committee Mentorship Program Contact Us Contact Form Support Us Search for: Search Init (Together) 2013 Sunday, April 14th, 2013, WICS started the first init(together) Southern California Conference for Women in Computing with the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences. This conference was created with the vision of bringing together a community of the new generation of women in computing under the guidance of the many active groups of women in technology in Southern California. ‘init,’ short for ‘initialize,’ symbolizes the beginning of a new generation of women starting their careers in computing. Combined, init(together) signifies women beginning their computing careers with the support of mentors, with peers as collaborators and most importantly: connected together as an active and vibrant community. WICS created this conference to inspire women to confidently pursue jobs and internships, start their own tech projects, engage in computing challenges or competitions, and openly collaborate with their peers and mentors. Over 300 women attended init(together), which featured a series of panel discussions and hands-on workshops for women seeking to develop their skills in computing. A mentorship program was also launched to connect female computing students and women entering industry with faculty and industry professionals in Southern California. There was also a Career Expo that featured a variety of companies and programs in Southern California, which brought industries directly to attendees. init(together) was a huge success and WICS plans on hosting this event every other year in the spring! For more information on init(together), check out the website! « prev 1 2 3 next » (12 Photos) Share this: Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window) Related Post navigation WICS hosts a “Toy Hacking” Workshop with Dr. Garnet Hertz Western Digital Tour & Luncheon with Female Engineers Questions or comments? Contact us Copyright © 2019 Women in Information and Computer Sciences All Rights Reserved | Archie by Theme Palace