8954
wics.ics.uci.edu/officers
Current Officers – Women in Information and Computer Sciences Skip to content Women in Information and Computer Sciences Menu Home About What We Do Current Officers Awards and Accomplishments Previous Officers Events Events Calendar Blogs Conferences CWIC Socal 2018 Init (Together) Community Outreach About Community Outreach Bytes of Code Bytes of Code 2019 Bytes of Code Summer 2018 #innovate #innovate 2019 #innovate Spring 2018 #GirlsKnowCS 2018 Conference ExploreICS Join Us! Membership Signup Apply to WICS Committee Mentorship Program Contact Us Contact Form Support Us Search for: Search Current Officers 2018-2019 Officers Co-Presidents Princess Pancubit Crystal Agerton Brief Role Description for Presidents: Presidents oversees all responsibilities and makes sure all tasks/goals are completed. They maintain communication and connections within committee, between advisors and other clubs (ICS Consortium). External Vice President Sharon Hsu Internal Vice President Cheyenne Chavez Brief Role Description for External and Internal Vice Presidents: External and Internal Vice Presidents are Co-Chairs of our Executive Committee. They assist Presidents with anything they need, as well as communicate with advisors. External Vice President organizes weekly events and communicates with companies to host events. Internal Vice President organizes social-bonding events and the WICS Mentorship Program. Secretary Chelsea Vong Brief Role Description for Secretary: Secretary informs board and committee members about meeting times and records notes during the meetings. They also update the subscribers list for the newsletter and sends out the newsletter. Treasurer Diana Grande Brief Role Description for Treasurer: Treasurer manages WICS Funds in both WICS’s ICS account and ASUCI account. They are in charge of depositing and distributing money, as well as reimbursements. Historian Alyssa Darjuan Brief Role Description for Historian: Historian is in charge of managing the WICS Website. They are responsible for updating/creating the website pages, posting blog posts, and updating the event’s calendar. Co-Community Outreach Chairs Melissa Torres Nehal Desai Brief Role Description for Community Outreach Chairs: Community Outreach Chairs organize workshops for K-12 students in the area. They also apply to grants and write proposals for funding their events. Corporate Chair Grace Choe Brief Description for Corporate Chair: Corporate Chair organizes events related to professional development (e.g. conferences, hackathons, etc.). They find and build relationships with company representatives and create the sponsorship packets. Marketing Chair Dianne Ison Brief Description for Marketing Chair: Marketing Chair advertises WICS events through social media platforms, flyers, emailing the ICS e-bulletin and professors. They organize the crepe boothing fundraisers, and are in charge of unofficial committee members (e.g. photographer, graphic designer, blogger). Committee Members: Archita Ganesh Stephanie Tam Joyce Luu Fei Ma Katherine Hubeny Kastur Koul Deepal Sanghrajka Kristen DeVore Natalie Aguinaldo Mohra Arsala Amanda Chou Megha Kak Shannon Hoang Sherin Stephen Allison Zheng Rebecca Leung Michelle Liang Aishwarya Bhandari Danielle Muhlenberg Jacqueline Nguyen Tiffany Nguyen Greta Yu Jace Mica Bhavani Panda Rosetta Pendleton Alice Phan Kayla Tran Kasey Chuang Gayatri Subramaniam Diellza Sopi Emma Anderson — Faculty Advisors: Jennifer Wong-Ma Debra Richardson Sharnnia Artis Questions or comments? Contact us Copyright © 2019 Women in Information and Computer Sciences All Rights Reserved | Archie by Theme Palace