8969
wics.ics.uci.edu/week-5-facebook-women-panel
Facebook Women Panel – Women in Information and Computer Sciences Skip to content Women in Information and Computer Sciences Menu Home About What We Do Current Officers Awards and Accomplishments Previous Officers Events Events Calendar Blogs Conferences CWIC Socal 2018 Init (Together) Community Outreach About Community Outreach Bytes of Code Bytes of Code 2019 Bytes of Code Summer 2018 #innovate #innovate 2019 #innovate Spring 2018 #GirlsKnowCS 2018 Conference ExploreICS Join Us! Membership Signup Apply to WICS Committee Mentorship Program Contact Us Contact Form Support Us Search for: Search Facebook Women Panel Facebook Women Panel by Nikita Thakore In Week 5 on Monday, November 3rd, WICS was proud to host a Facebook Women Panel, wherein a recruiter and five engineers from Facebook took the time to answer questions about their experiences working for the world’s biggest social network. Their backgrounds ranged from developing Facebook’s Android apps, to being on the iOS Messenger team, to working on a secret, still-developing Facebook application. It was a great opportunity for attendees to get a glimpse of what jobs at Facebook have to offer, while enjoying delicious food, courtesy of Baja Fresh. When asked what they enjoyed at Facebook, the ladies unanimously remarked that they enjoyed the freedom to work on projects of their choice, and the creativity of their work environments. “Everyone all has the same title – Software Engineer,” Lynn explained, “so it’s very easy to go up to someone and ask them anything. The people at Facebook are really humble.” The team also highly praised Facebook’s Engineering Boot Camp program, a six-week program designed to introduce new engineers to the company’s code base. Jess, a former intern who recently went full-time, noted that it greatly helped her to figure out what she wanted to work on, while Kathy described it as “the best summer camp ever!” The panel ended promptly at seven, due to the engineers’ having to catch their flights back home, and the night closed with attendees being able to submit their resumes and pick up some Facebook swag. We had a great turnout, with over 60 people attending, and overall, the event was a terrific experience for everyone involved. Hopefully, it’s indicative of the popularity of the panels yet to come! « prev 1 2 3 4 5 next » (17 Photos) Share this: Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window) Related Post navigation WICS & VGDC Resume Workshop First General Meeting Questions or comments? Contact us Copyright © 2019 Women in Information and Computer Sciences All Rights Reserved | Archie by Theme Palace