9074
www.ics.uci.edu/%7Emajumder/vispercep/vispercep.htm
Visual Perception CS 213: Visual Perception Instructor: Aditi Majumder (Office: DBH 4056) Timings: MW 11:00am-12:20pm Quarter: Spring 2013 Course Description This course will serve as an introduction to the process of visual perception. The goal of this course is to provide the student with a understanding of what goes on behind of scenes of human visual perception, and how this understanding can help to advance the technologies of computer vision, computer graphics, multimedia and human computer interaction (HCI). This course will offer both the physiological and the psychophysical approach to understand human vision and will relate the two fields together to create a consistent and complete understanding of the process of visual perception. For the physiological approach, the course will introduce the areas of lower level visual processing in the receptors of the eye and the lateral geniculate nucleus and higher level visual processing in different areas of the brain. In the psychophysical approach, the course will introduce the different psychophysical models of human vision, like the models of perceptual organization, perceptual segregation, and construction. Concepts of color, depth, movement and their visual perception will be introduced. To relate the materials presented in the context of different areas of computer science, examples of the quantification and use of these physiological and psychophysical models in computer vision, computer graphics, multimedia and HCI will be referenced. Tentative Course Outline Introduction Optical Info Visual System Percieving Objects, Color, Depth and Movements Spatial Vision Perception and Action Applications Digital Color and Visualization Systems Image and Video Compression Gamut Matching Camera Calibration Depth Reconstruction Class Schedule Grading Policy Special Topic for the Class and Related Resources · Light Field · Light Field Cameras · Light Field Displays o Student Projects Course Materials (Borrowed from E. Bruce Goldstein’s Sensation and Perception, Palmer’s Vision Science and DeValois and DeValois’s Spatial Vision) Logistics Introduction Notes and Presentation (Classes: Jan 9 ). Optical Information Notes and Presentation (Classes: Jan 9 ). Visual System Notes and Presentation (Classes: Jan 11 , Jan 18). Perceiving Objects Notes and Presentation (Classes: Jan 23 ). Perceiving Color Notes and Presentation (Classes: Jan 30, Feb1 , Feb 1) Spatial Vision Notes and Presentation (Classes: Feb 8 ) Perceiving Depth and Size Notes and Presentation (Classes: Feb 10 ). Perceiving Movement (Classes: Feb 10 ) Perceiving Scenes Notes and Presentation (Classes: Feb 10 ) Perceiving Functions and Categories Notes and Presentation (Classes: Feb 13 ) Visual Attention Notes and Presentation (Classes: Feb 15 ) Visual Memory Notes and Presentation (Classes: Feb 15(STM) , Feb 15(LTM)) Guest Lectures (Shuang Zhao) Understanding the Role of Phase Function in Translucent Appearance (Feb 27) Looking against the light: How perception of translucency depends on lighting direction (Feb 29) Special Topic Light Field (Class: Feb 22, March 6, March 8) - Slides Student Presentations (All presentations will be in iGravi Lab, DBH 4211) 1. Coded Aperture Light Field Cameras o Image and Depth from a Conventional Camera with a Coded Aperture: Anat Levin, Rob Fergus, Fredo Durand, William T. Freeman (pdf) – Rex Yang (March 17, 8:00-8:20am) o Programmable Aperture Photography: Multiplexed Light Field Acquisition: Chia-Kai Liang, Tai-Hsu Lin, Bing-Yi Wong, Chi Liu, Homer H. Chen (pdf) – Zahra Montazeri (March 17, 8:20-8:40am) o Dappled Photography: Mask Enhanced Cameras for Heterodyned Light Fields and Coded Aperture Refocusing: Ashok Veeraraghavan Ramesh Raskar, Amit Agrawal, Ankit Mohan, Jack Tumblin (pdf) – Benjamin Milne (March 17, 8:40-9:00am) o Motion Invariant Photography: Anat Levin, Peter Sand, Taeg Sang Cho, Frédo Durand, William T. Freeman (pdf) – Zhixuan Jia (March 17, 9:00am-9:20am) o Focal Sweep Videography with Deformable Optics: D. Miau, O. Cossairt and S.K. Nayar, (pdf) 2. Light Field Applications o Light Field Transfer: Global Illumination Between Real and Synthetic Objects: Oliver Cossairt, Shree Nayar, Ravi Ramamoorthi (pdf) – Sahand Ghorbanpour (March 17, 9:20-9:40am) o Unstructured Light field, Abe Davis, Marc Levoy, Fredo Durant (pdf) – Sriniket Jayasimha (March 17, 9:40am-10:00am) o Interactive Deformation of Light Fields: Billy Chen, Eyal Ofek, Harry Shum, Marc Levoy (pdf) – Noble Kennamer (March 24, 8:00am-8:20am) 3. Evolution of Light Field Displays o Content-Adaptive Parallax Barriers for Automultiscopic 3D Display: Douglas Lanman, Matthew Hirsch, Yunhee Kim, and Ramesh Raskar (pdf) – Yu Guo (March 24, 8:20am-8:40am) o Polarization Fields: Dynamic Light Field Display using Multi-Layer LCDs: Douglas Lanman: Gordon Wetzstein, Matthew Hirsch, Wolfgang Heidrich, and Ramesh Raskar (pdf) – Zhanghang Liang (March 24, 8:40am-9am) o Layered 3D: Tomographic Image Synthesis for Attenuation-based Light Field and Hight Dynamic Range Displays: Gordon Wetzstein, Douglas Lanman, Wolfgang Heidrich, and Ramesh Raskar (pdf) – Yu Guo (March 24, 9am-9:20am) o Tensor Displays: Compressive Light Field Synthesis using Multilayer Displays with Directional Backlighting: Gordon Wetzstein, Douglas Lanman, Matthew Hirsch, and Ramesh Raskar (pdf) o Wide field of view compressive light field display using a multilayer architecture and tracked viewers: Renjie Chen, Andrew Maimone, Henry Fuchs, Ramesh Raskar, Gordon Wetzstein (pdf) – Peng Fei (March 24, 9:20am-9:40am) 4. Evolution of Near Eye Light Field Display o Focus 3D: Compressive Accommodation Display: A. Maimone, G. Wetzstein, M. Hirsch, D. Lanman, R. Raskar, and H. Fuchs (pdf) – Zeyu Su (March 24, 9:40am-10am) o Near-Eye Light Field Displays: Douglas Lanman and David Luebke (pdf) o Pinlight Displays: Wide Field of View Augmented-Reality Eyeglasses using Defocused Point Light Sources: A. Maimone, D. Lanman, K. Rathinavel, K. Keller, D. Luebke, and H. Fuchs (pdf) References Sensation and Perception, E. Bruce Goldstein Vision Science: Photons and Phenomenology, Stephen E. Palmer Theories of Visual Perception, Ian E. Gordon Color Appearance Models, Mark D. Fairchild Spatial Vision, Russell L. DeValois, Karen K. DeValois