9158
www.ics.uci.edu/IRUS
Institute for Software Research Jump to Content Search form Search ISR Home About ISR About ISR Director's Messages close this panel People Faculty Visitors Staff Associated Researchers Graduate Students Alumni close this panel Events Upcoming Events Past Events Symposia-Forums Distinguished Speakers Colloquia and Talks Student Symposia Workshops ISR-Supported Events Conferences Directions and Parking close this panel Research Research Projects Hot Research Spotlight close this panel Publications Bibliography Awarded Pubs Tech Reports Newsletter Dissertations close this panel Happenings Announcements News Briefs Hot Research Spotlight Director's Messages Alumni Profiles Student Updates Photo Albums close this panel Partnerships Sponsors Become a Sponsor! close this panel Contact title description ‹› You are here Home From the Director Welcome to ISR Welcome to the Institute for Software Research (ISR) at the University of California, Irvine. ISR is a Center in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences. Our goal is to advance software and information technology through research partnerships. Here at ISR, we have become the intersection between cutting edge software research and real world practice. Over the years we have built an impressive community of academic software researchers and industrial innovators. ISR offers a range of opportunities for participation and engagement. We invite you to join us as we continue to transform the field of Software Engineering. Director Prof. Sam Malek Featured Project User-tailored support for privacy decisons This project seeks to help users to balance the benefits and risks of information disclosure in a user-friendly manner, so that they can make good privacy decisions. More Research >> Upcoming Events Southern California Software Engineering Symposium (SuCSES) Keynote: Hans-Martin Will, Ph.D. Head of Innovation Center Newport Beach SAP “When Everything is an Experiment – Software Engineering in the Age of Big Data and Artificial Intelligence” Keynote: Emerson Murphy-Hill, Ph.D. Staff Research Scientist Google “Software Developer Diversity and Inclusion” Friday, June 7, 2019 read more more events >> ISR Announcements Richard N. Taylor Graduate Award in Software Engineering Established The UCI Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (ICS) has announced the establishment of the Richard N. Taylor Graduate Award in Software Engineering. This is the first award in ICS specifically dedicated to software engineering. Nov 02, 2018 read more Software Engineering in ICS – A 50-year History Nov 01, 2018 read more More Announcements >> Newsletter Fall/Winter 2018 More Issues >> News Briefs Prof. Cristina Videira Lopes has been named an IEEE Fellow for her contributions to ubiquitous and immersive programming. This honor is bestowed to nominees whose accomplishments have contributed importantly to the advancement or application of engineering, science, and technology, bringing the realization of significant value to society. Congratulations to Prof. Lopes! Read more about it here: https://www.ics.uci.edu/community/news/view_news?id=1463 Prof. David Redmiles is hosting Prof. Tayana U. Conte from the Federal University of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. Conte will be spending a year long sabbatical at UCI starting in February 2019. Here research interests are in software engineering and HCI. ISR Director Prof. Sam Malek gave a Keynote Address titled “The Threat in your Pocket: Trends, Challenges, and Solutions in Mobile Application Security” at the 25th Australasian Software Engineering Conference (ASWEC) and Australasian Software Week (ASW) in Adelaide, Australia in November. More News Briefs >> Recent Technical Reports Architectural Decay Prediction from Evolutionary History of Software. By Joshua Garcia, Ehsan Kouroshfar, and Sam Malek. November 2018 Towards Ubiquitous Privacy Decision Support: Machine Prediction of Privacy Decisions in IoT. By Hosub Lee, Alfred Kobsa. October 2018 A History of Software Engineering in ICS at UC Irvine. By Richard N. Taylor. October 2018 More Tech Reports >>