9175
www.ics.uci.edu/about/annualreport/2006-07/alumni.php
2006-07 annual report alumni @ the bren school of information and computer sciences This site will look much better in a browser that supports web standards, but it is accessible to any browser or Internet device. university of california, irvine donald bren school of information and computer sciences Previous | Home | Next Bren School Alumni » ABOUT THE BREN SCHOOL ALUMNI CHAPTER 2006-07 Officers: President Farshad Farhand '94 Vice President, Connect Mark Bryant '82 Vice President, Engage Jesse Hsia '05 Vice President, Serve Eric Smith '96 The Bren School Alumni Chapter welcomes alumni interested in leadership and volunteer roles. In addition to networking and alumni outreach, the chapter offers opportunities to get involved with Bren School student groups. To get involved, e-mail alumni@ics.uci.edu. Be sure to check out the Alumni Chapter blog for the latest news and events. Alumni by the Numbers Bachelors of Science 5,370 Masters of Science 951 Doctors of Philosophy 345 BREN SCHOOL ALUMNI SPONSORED PROGRAMS OPPORTUNITIES FOR INVOLVEMENT There are many opportunities for involvement with ICS, both for those who like to commit to long-term program, and those who have limited time and prefer to commit to programs that are easier to fit into their busy every-day schedule. ICS ALUMNI MENTOR PROGRAM Each Fall quarter, ICS offers its alumni the opportunity to get involved with current students through the ICS Mentor Program. Students are able to select mentors from a diverse pool of alumni. Mentors and students are matched for the duration of the academic year, with the hope that both alumni and students will be able to form long-lasting relationships. CAREER EVENTS Alumni are always welcomed back to campus for Career Events that range from the UCI Career Center’s annual Career Fest panels, to conducting workshops with one of the several student groups at ICS. If you are interested in this type of program, please email alumni@ics.uci.edu. UCI ALUMNI ASSOCIATION The UCI Alumni Association strives to enrich the lives of UCI alumni and engage them in a lifelong advancement of the university. Members make a difference in the tone and vitality of the organization. Founded in 1968, the association seeks to provide alumni with a lasting bond to the university. Not a member yet? Information on membership, benefits and alumni events can be found online. | University of California copyright | communications@ics.uci.edu | Content last modified: May 02 2019