9353
www.ics.uci.edu/about/kfflab
Kay Family Foundation Innovation Lab @ Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences HOME ABOUT About the School Dean's Welcome Facts and Figures Donald Bren Hall Visit the Bren School Equity & Diversity Contact Us DEPARTMENTS Computer Science Informatics Statistics RESEARCH Research Areas Research Centers Research Highlights STUDENTS Graduate ▸ Prospective Students How to Apply Programs of Study Academic Year Plan Forms Policies Funding & Housing Computing Support Campus Resources Visit the Bren School Graduate Student Handbook Contact Undergraduate ▸ Contact Academic Advising Course Updates Academic Year Plan Petitions ICS Majors ICS Minors Policies: Academic Integrity Policies: Academic Standing Policies: Add, drop, & change options Policies: Coursework outside UCI Policies: Grade policy Policies: Laptop & computer use Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses Graduation ICS Student Life Upcoming Events Computing Support Scholarships & Fellowships Student Jobs & Internships PEOPLE Faculty Staff Graduate Students NEWS & EVENTS Newsroom Events Social Media Press Releases Annual Reports Student Blogs GET INVOLVED Make a Gift Alumni Leadership Council Corporate Partners Sponsor Projects Product Development Competition Bren school home / About / Kay Family Foundation Innovation Lab Thanks to a generous gift from the Kay Family Foundation, the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences now features a mobile technology lab designed to foster student collaboration. The Kay Family Foundation Innovation Lab features state-of-the-art equipment, including Apple TVs and a PolyVision smartboard. MacBook Airs and iPads also are available for checkout to students enrolled in a Bren School major who are in good academic standing. The lab is located in ICS2, Room 110. Lab Availability and Policies Access to the Kay Family Foundation Innovation Lab will be granted on a quarterly basis to students in a Bren School of ICS major. Students must request access from the Bren School facilities via keys.ics.uci.edu, specifying Shannon Rudder (srudder) as Supervisor. Access to the lab is 7am to 10pm daily. Access will expire at the end of each quarter. Important Guidelines: Students are not to open the door for unauthorized users, at the risk of losing room privileges for a full quarter. Students are not to prop the door open, at the risk of losing room privileges permanently. Food or drinks (including water) are not allowed in the lab, and anybody found with food/drink in the room will lose room privileges for a full quarter. The lab will be monitored via periodic checks by ICS Student Council members who helped design the lab and develop these policies. The ICS Student Council has been tasked with supporting the Bren School in its enforcement of these rules. Periodically, the lab may be reserved for a class or seminar. Please check if the room is available for use (or booked). Check Schedule MacBook Air & iPad Checkout Policy Students must be enrolled in a Bren School major and must be in good academic standing in order to check out a MacBook Air or an iPad. These computers may be checked out for one week at a time — one device per student — via online reservation only. RESERVATIONS You must reserve a computer in advance at: https://support.ics.uci.edu/laptops PICKUP When the laptop or tablet you’ve requested is available, you will be notified via email and granted two sessions to pick up the device from ICS 346 before your request is cancelled. Pickup days/times are as follows: Monday - 1 to 2 p.m. Friday - 11 a.m. to noon LATE CHARGE If you return the MacBook Air or iPad past the due date, you will be charged a $10 fee for each day the computer is late, up to one week. If the computer is not returned by seven days past the due date, the value of the device will be added to your UCI student Zot Account in the Registrar’s Office. DAMAGES If the device sustains any damage while you have it checked out, you will be responsible for the cost of repair or replacement. More about the school Bren ICS Mission About the Bren gift Dean's welcome Meet the Dean Bren School Intranet Donald Bren Hall Undergraduate education Graduate studies Find faculty and staff Contact us Safety procedures Visit the Bren School Tweets by UCIbrenICS View Social Media Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences University of California, Irvine 6210 Donald Bren Hall Irvine, CA 92697-3425 UCI Homepage UCI Directory Faculty & Staff ICS Intranet Kay Family Foundation Lab Facilities News Events Map & Directions Employment Safety Procedures Privacy Policy Apply Contact Gift © UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences ➤