9640
www.ics.uci.edu/alumni/stayconnected/stayconnected/hall_of_fame/hall_of_fame/hall_of_fame/inductees.aspx.php
Alumni from the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences HOME ABOUT About the School Dean's Welcome Facts and Figures Donald Bren Hall Visit the Bren School Equity & Diversity Contact Us DEPARTMENTS Computer Science Informatics Statistics RESEARCH Research Areas Research Centers Research Highlights STUDENTS Graduate ▸ Prospective Students How to Apply Programs of Study Academic Year Plan Forms Policies Funding & Housing Computing Support Campus Resources Visit the Bren School Graduate Student Handbook Contact Undergraduate ▸ Contact Academic Advising Course Updates Academic Year Plan Petitions ICS Majors ICS Minors Policies: Academic Integrity Policies: Academic Standing Policies: Add, drop, & change options Policies: Coursework outside UCI Policies: Grade policy Policies: Laptop & computer use Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses Graduation ICS Student Life Upcoming Events Computing Support Scholarships & Fellowships Student Jobs & Internships PEOPLE Faculty Staff Graduate Students NEWS & EVENTS Newsroom Events Social Media Press Releases Annual Reports Student Blogs GET INVOLVED Make a Gift Alumni Leadership Council Corporate Partners Sponsor Projects Product Development Competition Bren school home / Community / Alumni / / / / / / ICS Alumni You're off campus and on your career path. But you can still make a difference in the Bren School community, whether you've moved down the block, across the country or around the world. For information on involvement opportunites, view the programs below or contact us at khuerth@ics.uci.edu or (949) 824-3074. Hall of Fame To honor those alumni who have made a significant impact in their profession or, in other ways, have brought distinction to the School, we created the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences Hall of Fame. To learn more about the Hall of Fame and its inductees, visit the ICS Hall of Fame website. Class Notes We're looking for your Class Notes! Whether you have a new job, started a new company or have any other exciting professional or personal news you want to share with other ICS alumni, we want to know. Please submit all of your Class Notes online so that we can consider them for the next ICS Annual Report, as well as on social media and our website. Stay Connected Do we have your most current email and mailing addresses? To get the latest news about the Bren School, as well as exclusive alumni event invitations, please click here to update your contact information. ICS Alumni Chapter The Donald Bren School Alumni Chapter welcomes Anteaters interested in leadership and volunteer roles. In addition to networking and alumni outreach, the chapter offers opportunities to get involved with Bren School student groups. To get involved, please contact Kristin Huerth at khuerth@ics.uci.edu. Butterworth Product Development Competition The Butterworth Product Development Competition encourages the development of new, technically innovative products by ICS graduate and undergraduate students. Formely known as hITEC, this program offers alumni a chance to mentor a team of students as they develop a new product and attempt to enter it into the marketplace. Learn more » Undergraduate Mentorship Program The program, comprised of alumni, community members and industry professionals, forms meaningful relationships with female and other traditionally underrepresented students in the fields of engineering and computer science where they explore career interests, academic guidance and personal development. Learn how to get involved as a mentor here. More alumni UCI Alumni Association Give a Gift Stay Connected Tweets by UCIbrenICS View Social Media Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences University of California, Irvine 6210 Donald Bren Hall Irvine, CA 92697-3425 UCI Homepage UCI Directory Faculty & Staff ICS Intranet Kay Family Foundation Lab Facilities News Events Map & Directions Employment Safety Procedures Privacy Policy Apply Contact Gift © UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences ➤