9800
www.ics.uci.edu/community/events/extreme/extreme_awards_2008.php
hitec awards @ the bren school of information and computer sciences ABOUT About the School Dean's Welcome Facts and Figures Donald Bren Hall Visit the Bren School Equity & Diversity Contact Us DEPARTMENTS Computer Science Informatics Statistics RESEARCH Research Areas Research Centers Research Highlights STUDENTS Graduate ▸ Prospective Students How to Apply Programs of Study Academic Year Plan Forms Policies Funding & Housing Computing Support Campus Resources Visit the Bren School Graduate Student Handbook Contact Undergraduate ▸ Contact Academic Advising Course Updates Academic Year Plan Petitions ICS Majors ICS Minors Policies: Academic Integrity Policies: Academic Standing Policies: Add, drop, & change options Policies: Coursework outside UCI Policies: Grade policy Policies: Laptop & computer use Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses Graduation ICS Student Life Upcoming Events Computing Support Scholarships & Fellowships Student Jobs & Internships PEOPLE Faculty Staff Graduate Students NEWS & EVENTS Newsroom Events Press Releases Annual Reports Student Blogs GET INVOLVED Make a Gift Alumni Leadership Council Corporate Partners Sponsor Projects Product Development Competition Bren school home / Community / Events / hITEC hITEC Awards The Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences would like to express our its heartfelt appreciation to Ted Smith and Ramesh Jain for their extraordinary leadership of the 2008 hITEC OCTANe Student Competition. In addition to thanking each of the student teams for their commitment and hard work, the Bren School of ICS would like to thank each of its valuable volunteers: presenters, judges and mentors for their time, commitment and support. 2008 hITEC OCTANe Winners Bren School Dean Debra J. Richardson (left) poses with the Adball.com team as they accept the award for their 1st place finish in the hITEC OCTANe competition. 1st Place ($5,000 sponsored by Paul Mockapetris) Product: Adball.com Product Description: Adball is an online collaborative platform that creates content for advertising campaigns. It leverages the creativity of large and diverse online community of consumers themselves. Adball empowers users to facilitate the collaborative creation of multi-media based advertising communications. From print advertisements, web banner ads, radio jingles, to videos for both television and the web, Adball gives corporate clients access to the creative power of their most powerful resource, their own consumers. It has been said that successful marketers speak to consumers in the ways they want to be spoken to; Adball says why not let the consumers do the talking? This team also won 3rd place at the Merage School Business Plan Competition and the OC Register "Reader’s Poll". Team members: Karim El Defrawy, Minas Gjoka, Michael Sirivianos from the Bren School of ICS; and Karl Ring and Nayana Wagle, from the Merage School of Business. Mentor: Arie Shen 2nd Place ($2,500 sponsored by MIND Research Institute) Product Name:Click2School Product Description: Click2School aims to bridge the gap between the school education and the Internet and provide a platform to use the Internet as an effective educational tool. It aims to provide a rich and user-friendly environment for learning, problem solving, information sharing, and social networking for school students. It provides content filtering based on school grades (4th, 5th, etc.) and students' interests to cater to the needs of a specific age group. Team Members: Deepika Gandhi, Ajeet Kumar, Ajay Mishra Mentor: Janell So 3rd Place ($1,500 sponsored by Northwind Ventures) Product Name: VideoOnTheWall Product Description: VideoOnTheWall gives everyday people the ability to become "news reporters" on the Internet. Users capture footage via the camera functionality on a cell phone and transmit to our servers. These streaming news reports can be viewed by anyone on the Internet live. The experience is interactive. A trusted network of viewers can send real-time messages to the reporters for instant feedback. The system ushers social web interaction to the next level. Reporters can have their own personal page with all their previous video casts, which can spur a following for the most popular reporters, in the same way in which people follow popular bloggers. Team Members:Tommy Chheng, Ala Khalifeh, Avi Mehta, Arjun Satish, Ajey Shah Mentors: Sherman Chen More community Alumni Friends Parents Leadership Council News Give a gift More hITEC Guidelines Format Timeline Team registration Recruit forum Mentor signup Forms 2009 winners 2008 winners hITEC Sponsors Northwind Ventures Printronix Ted and Janice Smith Quick Links - select a page - Computing support CS Seminar Series Employment Facilities Find faculty and staff Giving to the Bren School Graduate degrees Kay Family Foundation Lab Project ICS Prospective undergraduates Safety procedures Undergraduate degrees Copyright Inquiries | UCI Directory | Intranet