9801
www.ics.uci.edu/community/events/extreme/extreme_format.php
hitec format @ the bren school of information and computer sciences ABOUT About the School Dean's Welcome Facts and Figures Donald Bren Hall Visit the Bren School Equity & Diversity Contact Us DEPARTMENTS Computer Science Informatics Statistics RESEARCH Research Areas Research Centers Research Highlights STUDENTS Graduate ▸ Prospective Students How to Apply Programs of Study Academic Year Plan Forms Policies Funding & Housing Computing Support Campus Resources Visit the Bren School Graduate Student Handbook Contact Undergraduate ▸ Contact Academic Advising Course Updates Academic Year Plan Petitions ICS Majors ICS Minors Policies: Academic Integrity Policies: Academic Standing Policies: Add, drop, & change options Policies: Coursework outside UCI Policies: Grade policy Policies: Laptop & computer use Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses Graduation ICS Student Life Upcoming Events Computing Support Scholarships & Fellowships Student Jobs & Internships PEOPLE Faculty Staff Graduate Students NEWS & EVENTS Newsroom Events Press Releases Annual Reports Student Blogs GET INVOLVED Make a Gift Alumni Leadership Council Corporate Partners Sponsor Projects Product Development Competition Bren school home / Community / Events / hITEC hITEC format The competition will consist of four phases. A series of resources and workshops will be offered to the teams throughout the competition. Registration Teams wishing to enter the competition must register online by midnight on the registration deadline. Each registered team will receive a 'team number' upon registration. ALL SUBMITTED MATERIALS MUST CONTAIN THE TEAM NUMBER IN LIEU OF TEAM MEMBER NAMES. Registration forms consist of a two paragraph description outlining the product idea, contact information for each team member and the area of computing this product impacts. Competition details, participation forms, resources and deadlines are available on the hITEC OCTANe web site. All submissions must be made electronically using the forms available online via the Bren School checkmate system. Required forms will be made available at the beginning of the competition. Advisor/Mentor matches Faculty and industry advisors will be matched with all registered teams. Teams are allowed to identify and solicit mentors independently, provided they submit their mentor’s information to the program administrator. PHASE ONE: Team building and Idea Development The Bren School will kick off the hITEC competition at an event in January. Competition details, participation forms, resources and deadlines are available on the hITEC web site. All submissions must be made electronically using the forms available online via the Bren School checkmate system. Required forms will be made available at the beginning of the competition. PHASE TWO: Preliminary Product Description Teams will work with mentors to develop a two-page Preliminary Product Description (PPD). PPDs must be submit electronically by midnight on the deadline. (See timeline for details.) PHASE THREE Teams will be asked to submit Preliminary Product Specifications (PPS). PPS should include a detailed description of the proposed product. The judges will review all submissions and provide to the teams prior to submission of the Final Product Specification. The PPS should be no more than five pages and must be submitted electronically by midnight on the deadline. PHASE FOUR Consists of the Final Product Specifications (FPS). The FPS provides the final and most detailed description of your proposed product. Please limit your final submission to no more than 15 text pages and 10 graphics pages. Submissions must be made as a text or PDF file through the checkmate system. Final Product Specifications must be submitted by midnight on the deadline. All teams are required to do a product demonstration as part of their final presentation to the judge panel. The date, times and locations for the demos will be announced during the later part of the winter quarter (see timeline). No consideration will be given to late entries at any point during the competition. NO EXCEPTIONS! More community Alumni Friends Parents Leadership Council News Give a gift More hITEC Guidelines Format Timeline Team registration Recruit forum Mentor signup Forms 2009 winners 2008 winners hITEC Sponsors Northwind Ventures Printronix Ted and Janice Smith Quick Links - select a page - Computing support CS Seminar Series Employment Facilities Find faculty and staff Giving to the Bren School Graduate degrees Kay Family Foundation Lab Project ICS Prospective undergraduates Safety procedures Undergraduate degrees Copyright Inquiries | UCI Directory | Intranet