9858
www.ics.uci.edu/community/news/articles/view_article?id=19
HOME ABOUT About the School Dean's Welcome Facts and Figures Donald Bren Hall Visit the Bren School Equity & Diversity Contact Us DEPARTMENTS Computer Science Informatics Statistics RESEARCH Research Areas Research Centers Research Highlights STUDENTS Graduate ▸ Prospective Students How to Apply Programs of Study Academic Year Plan Forms Policies Funding & Housing Computing Support Campus Resources Visit the Bren School Graduate Student Handbook Contact Undergraduate ▸ Contact Academic Advising Course Updates Academic Year Plan Petitions ICS Majors ICS Minors Policies: Academic Integrity Policies: Academic Standing Policies: Add, drop, & change options Policies: Coursework outside UCI Policies: Grade policy Policies: Laptop & computer use Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses Graduation ICS Student Life Upcoming Events Computing Support Scholarships & Fellowships Student Jobs & Internships PEOPLE Faculty Staff Graduate Students NEWS & EVENTS Newsroom Events Social Media Press Releases Annual Reports Student Blogs GET INVOLVED Make a Gift Alumni Leadership Council Corporate Partners Sponsor Projects Product Development Competition Bren school home / Community / News / Articles June 3, 2004 Los Angeles Times Big Donor Is Donald Bren, UC Irvine Says By Jean O. Pasco UC Irvine officials on Wednesday identified Irvine Co. Chief Executive Donald Bren as the anonymous donor who gave $20 million to UC Irvine's School of Information and Computer Science in December. Bren will be honored at a campus ceremony and groundbreaking Wednesday for the new Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences. His gift, the largest gift ever to UCI, provided more than $18 million for 10 endowed faculty chairs for the new school. Since 1984, Bren has given more than $40 million to the university, endowing more permanent chairs than anyone in the campus' history. Company officials said Bren made the donation anonymously through the Donald Bren Foundation last year to keep the focus on the school, which had yet to choose a dean or hire faculty. The money allowed recruitment to begin in earnest, including the hiring of Dean Debra J. Richardson in March. The school intended to recognize the Orange County billionaire's generosity at next week's groundbreaking, company and school officials said. "We knew he'd be recognized down the road," company spokeswoman Jennifer Hieger said. School officials said they honored Bren's request to delay identifying him to coincide with the announcement of the new dean, the groundbreaking and christening of the school's name. "I am honored to have my name and support associated with the first computer science school in the UC system," Bren said in a prepared statement. "It is my hope and expectation that this school - and what it produces in the way of human capital and technological innovation - will be the force behind future breakthroughs in education, science and business that will lift our standard of living and quality of life." Funds approved by voters in March with the passage of Proposition 55, as well as a companion initiative in November 2002, will pay for construction of a six-story, 138,000-square-foot research and classroom facility scheduled to open in fall 2006. The new school was elevated from department status at UCI in December 2002 and has grown to more than 2,000 undergraduate and graduate students. Big Donor Is Donald Bren, UC Irvine Says More news and events News Stories Press releases Video highlights Annual reports Student Blogs Calendar of events Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or via email at matt.miller@uci.edu. Tweets by UCIbrenICS View Social Media Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences University of California, Irvine 6210 Donald Bren Hall Irvine, CA 92697-3425 UCI Homepage UCI Directory Faculty & Staff ICS Intranet Kay Family Foundation Lab Facilities News Events Map & Directions Employment Safety Procedures Privacy Policy Apply Contact Gift © UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences ➤