9890
www.ics.uci.edu/community/news/articles/view_article?id=488
HOME ABOUT About the School Dean's Welcome Facts and Figures Donald Bren Hall Visit the Bren School Equity & Diversity Contact Us DEPARTMENTS Computer Science Informatics Statistics RESEARCH Research Areas Research Centers Research Highlights STUDENTS Graduate ▸ Prospective Students How to Apply Programs of Study Academic Year Plan Forms Policies Funding & Housing Computing Support Campus Resources Visit the Bren School Graduate Student Handbook Contact Undergraduate ▸ Contact Academic Advising Course Updates Academic Year Plan Petitions ICS Majors ICS Minors Policies: Academic Integrity Policies: Academic Standing Policies: Add, drop, & change options Policies: Coursework outside UCI Policies: Grade policy Policies: Laptop & computer use Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses Graduation ICS Student Life Upcoming Events Computing Support Scholarships & Fellowships Student Jobs & Internships PEOPLE Faculty Staff Graduate Students NEWS & EVENTS Newsroom Events Social Media Press Releases Annual Reports Student Blogs GET INVOLVED Make a Gift Alumni Leadership Council Corporate Partners Sponsor Projects Product Development Competition Bren school home / Community / News / Articles May 13, 2016 UCI ranks among Top 20 on Semantic Scholar Insights' List UC Irvine has been ranked 17 out of 500 influential U.S. computer science schools on the newly generated Semantic Scholar Insights’ list. The list, developed by the Allen Institute for Artificial Intelligence in Seattle uses machine learning techniques to measure the influence of computer science programs’ published papers throughout the country. It also ranks paper authors and institutions. UC Irvine racks up nearly 8,900 highly influential citations, “where the cited publication has a significant impact on the citing publication, making it easier to understand how publications build upon and relate to each other,” according to Semantic Scholar. Using the Semantic Scholar algorithm, UC Irvine’s computer science influence beats out the likes of UCLA, Harvard and CalTech. The insights list rivals Google Scholar, PubMed and other online search engines with artificial intelligence methods, though automatically inferring influence using quantitative methods can be tricky. Influence is a difficult thing to measure, with the traditional method being counting citations. But, as a Science article observes, not all citations are created equal. Semantic Scholar attempts “a more direct measurement of a paper's actual influence on future research,” the article says. “Semantic Scholar tries to reveal what's ‘hot’ in the field by measuring the ‘velocity’ and ‘acceleration’ of bodies of work, measurements of how rapidly others are citing certain work, and whether that is trending,” it adds. UCI ranks among Top 20 on Semantic Scholar Insights' List More news and events News Stories Press releases Video highlights Annual reports Student Blogs Calendar of events Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or via email at matt.miller@uci.edu. Tweets by UCIbrenICS View Social Media Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences University of California, Irvine 6210 Donald Bren Hall Irvine, CA 92697-3425 UCI Homepage UCI Directory Faculty & Staff ICS Intranet Kay Family Foundation Lab Facilities News Events Map & Directions Employment Safety Procedures Privacy Policy Apply Contact Gift © UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences ➤