9927
www.ics.uci.edu/community/news/press/view_press?id=146
press release @ the bren school of information and computer sciences HOME ABOUT About the School Dean's Welcome Facts and Figures Donald Bren Hall Visit the Bren School Equity & Diversity Contact Us DEPARTMENTS Computer Science Informatics Statistics RESEARCH Research Areas Research Centers Research Highlights STUDENTS Graduate ▸ Prospective Students How to Apply Programs of Study Academic Year Plan Forms Policies Funding & Housing Computing Support Campus Resources Visit the Bren School Graduate Student Handbook Contact Undergraduate ▸ Contact Academic Advising Course Updates Academic Year Plan Petitions ICS Majors ICS Minors Policies: Academic Integrity Policies: Academic Standing Policies: Add, drop, & change options Policies: Coursework outside UCI Policies: Grade policy Policies: Laptop & computer use Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses Graduation ICS Student Life Upcoming Events Computing Support Scholarships & Fellowships Student Jobs & Internships PEOPLE Faculty Staff Graduate Students NEWS & EVENTS Newsroom Events Social Media Press Releases Annual Reports Student Blogs GET INVOLVED Make a Gift Alumni Leadership Council Corporate Partners Sponsor Projects Product Development Competition Bren school home / Community / News / Press releases Press release January 9, 2015 Two ICS professors honored as ACM Fellows Jan. 9, 2015 The Association for Computing Machinery (ACM), the world’s largest educational and scientific computing society, has announced that two professors at UC Irvine’s Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences — Nikil Dutt and Gene Tsudik — have been named 2014 ACM Fellows. Established in 1993, the ACM Fellows Program recognizes its top members for outstanding accomplishments in computing and information technology. This year, only 47 of ACM’s more than 100,000 members worldwide were named fellows. The total number of fellows is limited to 1 percent of ACM overall membership. ACM President Alexander L. Wolf acknowledged the advances made by this year’s ACM Fellows. “Our world has been immeasurably improved by the impact of their innovations. We recognize their contributions to the dynamic computing technologies that are making a difference to the study of computer science, the community of computing professionals, and the universe of consumers and citizens who are benefiting from their creativity and commitment.” Nikil Dutt is a Chancellor's Professor of computer science, cognitive sciences, and EECS at UCI. He was honored as an ACM Fellow for his contributions to embedded architecture exploration, and service to electronic design automation and embedded systems. He received a Ph.D. from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign in 1989. His research interests span topics in embedded systems, electronic design automation, computer architecture, and brain-inspired computing. He has received numerous best paper awards at premier conferences and is coauthor of seven books. He served as Editor-in-Chief of the premier journal ACM Transactions on Design Automation of Electronic Systems (2003-2008) and currently serves on the ACM Publications Board. He is a Fellow of the IEEE, and recipient of the International Federation for Information Processing’s Silver Core Award. Gene Tsudik is a Chancellor's Professor of computer science at UCI. He earned the ACM fellow rank for contributions to Internet security and privacy. Gene Tsudik obtained his Ph.D. in Computer Science from USC in 1991. Before coming to UCI in 2000, he was at IBM Zurich Research Laboratory (1991-1996) and USC’s Information Sciences Institute (1996-2000). Over the years, his research interests have included numerous topics in security, privacy and applied cryptography. He has co-authored over 200 refereed research publications and several patents. From 2009 to 2015, he was the Editor-in-Chief of ACM Transactions on Information and Systems Security — the premier archival journal for security and privacy research. He was awarded a Fulbright Lectureship in 2007 (at the University of Rome) and the rank of IEEE Fellow — in 2012. ACM will formally recognize the 2014 Fellows at its annual awards banquet in June in San Francisco. About the UC Irvine Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences: As the only computing-focused school in the University of California system, the Bren School is providing computer science and information technology leadership for the 21st century through its innovative and broad curricula, research and development of emerging technologies, and collaborations to address societal concerns. For more information, visit: www.ics.uci.edu. About the University of California, Irvine: Located in coastal Orange County, near a thriving employment hub in one of the nation’s safest cities, UC Irvine was founded in 1965. One of only 62 members of the Association of American Universities, it’s ranked first among U.S. universities under 50 years old by the London-based Times Higher Education. The campus has produced three Nobel laureates and is known for its academic achievement, premier research, innovation and anteater mascot. UC Irvine has more than 28,000 students and offers 192 degree programs. It’s Orange County’s second-largest employer, contributing $4.3 billion annually to the local economy. Contact: Ted B. Kissell (949) 824-6469 tkissell@uci.edu More news and events News Stories Press releases Video highlights Annual reports Student Blogs Calendar of events Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or via email at matt.miller@uci.edu. Tweets by UCIbrenICS View Social Media Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences University of California, Irvine 6210 Donald Bren Hall Irvine, CA 92697-3425 UCI Homepage UCI Directory Faculty & Staff ICS Intranet Kay Family Foundation Lab Facilities News Events Map & Directions Employment Safety Procedures Privacy Policy Apply Contact Gift © UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences ➤