9928
www.ics.uci.edu/community/news/press/view_press?id=149
press release @ the bren school of information and computer sciences HOME ABOUT About the School Dean's Welcome Facts and Figures Donald Bren Hall Visit the Bren School Equity & Diversity Contact Us DEPARTMENTS Computer Science Informatics Statistics RESEARCH Research Areas Research Centers Research Highlights STUDENTS Graduate ▸ Prospective Students How to Apply Programs of Study Academic Year Plan Forms Policies Funding & Housing Computing Support Campus Resources Visit the Bren School Graduate Student Handbook Contact Undergraduate ▸ Contact Academic Advising Course Updates Academic Year Plan Petitions ICS Majors ICS Minors Policies: Academic Integrity Policies: Academic Standing Policies: Add, drop, & change options Policies: Coursework outside UCI Policies: Grade policy Policies: Laptop & computer use Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses Graduation ICS Student Life Upcoming Events Computing Support Scholarships & Fellowships Student Jobs & Internships PEOPLE Faculty Staff Graduate Students NEWS & EVENTS Newsroom Events Social Media Press Releases Annual Reports Student Blogs GET INVOLVED Make a Gift Alumni Leadership Council Corporate Partners Sponsor Projects Product Development Competition Bren school home / Community / News / Press releases Press release March 12, 2015 SCSIM, UC Irvine partner to strengthen research and collaboration among IT industry IRVINE, Calif. — March 12, 2015 — The Southern California Chapter of the Society for Information Management (SCSIM) and the University of California, Irvine’s (UCI) Henry Samueli School of Engineering and Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences School have announced a strategic partnership between the organizations. The strategic partnership will strengthen collaborations between the state-of-the-art researchers at UCI and corporate leaders in IT and technology organizations. The organizations envision jointly sponsored activities as well as closer collaborations around performing and evaluating research, assessing industry trends and needs and facilitating talent acquisition. “Our faculty need input from companies regarding industry trends and needs. We anticipate this relationship will benefit both UCI and SCSIM members” said Dean Washington of the Henry Samueli School. Dean Stern of the Donald Bren School agrees: “our faculty, especially in areas like big data and cybersecurity, benefit from testing out our concepts on real data and live use cases. The partnership benefits both stakeholders.” “We are tremendously excited to have UCI as a partner. UCI is known as world class creator and incubator of technology driven capabilities and of top talent. Forging this bond with UCI creates a mutually beneficial environment for companies and the schools. SCSIM member organizations stand to benefit from insight into leading edge research and capabilities and access to terrific students, while offering real world challenges for these UCI researchers to test their hypotheses against,” commented Brandon Johnson, SCSIM chairperson. About the Society for Information Management Since 1969, SIM has represented and inspired the most prestigious IT leaders in the industry. Highly regarded as the premier IT leadership network, SIM is a community of thought leaders drawn primarily from the ranks of senior IT executives and renowned academics. For more information, visit www.scsim.org. About The Henry Samueli School of Engineering at UC Irvine Founded in 1965, the Samueli School of Engineering educates more than 4,000 engineers each year with an integrative approach that blends fundamentals, research and hands-on experience. The school’s mission is to unleash innovation, create opportunities and inspire ingenuity. The Samueli School’s faculty members are leaders in their disciplines who have achieved worldwide recognition for their research and dedicated teaching. The school includes five academic departments: biomedical engineering; chemical engineering and materials science; civil and environmental engineering; electrical engineering and computer science; and mechanical and aerospace engineering. For more information, visit www.eng.uci.edu. About the UC Irvine Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences As the only computing-focused school in the University of California system, the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences provides computer science and information technology leadership for the 21st century through its innovative and broad curricula, research and development of emerging technologies, and collaborations to address societal concerns. The Donald Bren School’s three departments—computer science, informatics and statistics—serve to reshape domains as far reaching as education, art and entertainment, business and law, the environment and biological systems, healthcare and medicine. To learn more, visit: www.ics.uci.edu. More news and events News Stories Press releases Video highlights Annual reports Student Blogs Calendar of events Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or via email at matt.miller@uci.edu. Tweets by UCIbrenICS View Social Media Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences University of California, Irvine 6210 Donald Bren Hall Irvine, CA 92697-3425 UCI Homepage UCI Directory Faculty & Staff ICS Intranet Kay Family Foundation Lab Facilities News Events Map & Directions Employment Safety Procedures Privacy Policy Apply Contact Gift © UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences ➤