9931
www.ics.uci.edu/community/news/press/view_press?id=161
press release @ the bren school of information and computer sciences HOME ABOUT About the School Dean's Welcome Facts and Figures Donald Bren Hall Visit the Bren School Equity & Diversity Contact Us DEPARTMENTS Computer Science Informatics Statistics RESEARCH Research Areas Research Centers Research Highlights STUDENTS Graduate ▸ Prospective Students How to Apply Programs of Study Academic Year Plan Forms Policies Funding & Housing Computing Support Campus Resources Visit the Bren School Graduate Student Handbook Contact Undergraduate ▸ Contact Academic Advising Course Updates Academic Year Plan Petitions ICS Majors ICS Minors Policies: Academic Integrity Policies: Academic Standing Policies: Add, drop, & change options Policies: Coursework outside UCI Policies: Grade policy Policies: Laptop & computer use Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses Graduation ICS Student Life Upcoming Events Computing Support Scholarships & Fellowships Student Jobs & Internships PEOPLE Faculty Staff Graduate Students NEWS & EVENTS Newsroom Events Social Media Press Releases Annual Reports Student Blogs GET INVOLVED Make a Gift Alumni Leadership Council Corporate Partners Sponsor Projects Product Development Competition Bren school home / Community / News / Press releases Press release February 1, 2017 eSports leader UCI to host panel discussion on women in gaming EVENT: Female industry leaders and academics will take part in a panel discussion at the University of California, Irvine on women in gaming, with an emphasis on eSports and other competitions. The panelists, including prominent professional and club players and designers, will examine gaming’s cultural dynamics and how women can better be encouraged to pursue it as a career or sport. WHEN/WHERE: Thursday, Feb. 2, at 6 p.m. in the Crystal Cove Auditorium at UCI’s Student Center (bldg. 113, grid E8 on campus map), followed by a VIP reception at 7:30 p.m. in UCI’s eSports arena, also at the Student Center. INFORMATION: The panel discussion is free and open to the public. The VIP reception is by invitation. Media planning to attend either event should contact Matt Miller at 949-824-1562 or 714-317-8771. Parking is complimentary for media who RSVP in advance. HIGHLIGHTS: 6-7:15 p.m.: Discussion and Q&A moderated by UCI informatics doctoral student Amanda Cullen, featuring: Rumay “Hafu” Wang – renowned professional competitor and champion, now a Twitch streamer with 400,000 followers and 49 million views Rachel “Seltzer” Quirico – eSports host, Twitch streamer and former professional gamer Heidi McDonald – creative director at iThrive and game designer Kathy Chiang ’16 – UCI eSports arena coordinator, co-founder of one of the world’s largest video game clubs and computer game science alumna Lena Uszkoreit – University of Southern California doctoral student who studies the effect of female streamers on the perception of female competitors 7:30 p.m.: VIP reception allowing guests to play games in UCI’s new eSports arena while networking with the panelists, faculty and industry professionals BACKGROUND: Amateur and pro female video gamers have faced tough odds, harassment and threats, including Gamergate. Yet equal numbers of women and men now play online games. As collegiate and professional eSports teams expand and viewership skyrockets globally, players and academics say it’s critical to break down gender barriers. The question is how. “This conversation is meant to inspire young women to pursue gaming as a hobby and as a career and to generate action that encourages and supports inclusive gaming on campus and beyond,” said panel moderator Cullen, who researches fan activity. The event is co-sponsored by the Department of Informatics at the Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences, UCI eSports and the Women’s Empowerment Initiative, in partnership with AnyKey. For more details, visit http://www.informatics.uci.edu/home/women-in-gaming. More news and events News Stories Press releases Video highlights Annual reports Student Blogs Calendar of events Media interested in interviewing ICS faculty, students or alumni should contact Matt Miller at (949) 824-1562 or via email at matt.miller@uci.edu. Tweets by UCIbrenICS View Social Media Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences University of California, Irvine 6210 Donald Bren Hall Irvine, CA 92697-3425 UCI Homepage UCI Directory Faculty & Staff ICS Intranet Kay Family Foundation Lab Facilities News Events Map & Directions Employment Safety Procedures Privacy Policy Apply Contact Gift © UCI Donald Bren School of Information & Computer Sciences ➤