9942
www.ics.uci.edu/community/news/spotlight/spotlight_anteaterawards.php
Students Reap Campus Awards spotlight @ the bren school of information and computer sciences ABOUT About the School Dean's Welcome Facts and Figures Donald Bren Hall Visit the Bren School Equity & Diversity Contact Us DEPARTMENTS Computer Science Informatics Statistics RESEARCH Research Areas Research Centers Research Highlights STUDENTS Graduate ▸ Prospective Students How to Apply Programs of Study Academic Year Plan Forms Policies Funding & Housing Computing Support Campus Resources Visit the Bren School Graduate Student Handbook Contact Undergraduate ▸ Contact Academic Advising Course Updates Academic Year Plan Petitions ICS Majors ICS Minors Policies: Academic Integrity Policies: Academic Standing Policies: Add, drop, & change options Policies: Coursework outside UCI Policies: Grade policy Policies: Laptop & computer use Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses Graduation ICS Student Life Upcoming Events Computing Support Scholarships & Fellowships Student Jobs & Internships PEOPLE Faculty Staff Graduate Students NEWS & EVENTS Newsroom Events Press Releases Annual Reports Student Blogs GET INVOLVED Make a Gift Alumni Leadership Council Corporate Partners Sponsor Projects Product Development Competition Bren school home / Community / News / Spotlights Students Reap Campus Awards Dean Hal Stern (center) with student leaders from various Bren School organizations, including the ICS Student Council and WICS. Three Bren:ICS student organizations and a freshman computer science major took home Anteater Awards at a May 18 ceremony, for their achievements throughout the 2010-11 academic year. The year-old ICS Student Council was named Most Outstanding Social/Support Organization and was a runner-up for Most Outstanding Executive Board. Most Outstanding Special Interest Organization went to Women in Information and Computer Science (WICS); the Video Game Development Club was a finalist in the same category. Freshman Nithin Jilla, founder of Kenya Dream at UCI — a student and community-based organization dedicated to improving secondary education facilities in Kenya — won President of the Year. “Being part of Kenya Dream is something I love to do and something I'm passionate about, so my involvement doesn’t feel like work,” says Jilla, who credits part of his leadership skills to lessons learned in the classroom. “One of the things I’ve learned as a computer science major is to be patient and persistent,” he adds. “In agile software development, for example, you have to set priorities and work collaboratively. These are strategies that I utilize with the Kenya Dream team.” For WICS president Rachita Gehi, the Anteater Award symbolizes the WICS board and members’ hard work over the past year. They’ve been busy organizing such events as information sessions hosted by Fortune 500 companies, a mentorship program and a conference funded by the National Center for Women & Technology. “Our goal is to build a strong bond among our peers and to offer them the necessary support they need to succeed as Bren:ICS students,” she says. More community Alumni Parents Leadership Council News Give a gift Quick Links - select a page - Computing support CS Seminar Series Employment Facilities Find faculty and staff Giving to the Bren School Graduate degrees Kay Family Foundation Lab Project ICS Prospective undergraduates Safety procedures Undergraduate degrees Copyright Inquiries | UCI Directory | Intranet