9967
www.ics.uci.edu/community/news/spotlight/spotlight_kff_innovation_lab.php
Kay Family Foundation funds new mobile technology lab @ the bren school of information and computer sciences ABOUT About the School Dean's Welcome Facts and Figures Donald Bren Hall Visit the Bren School Equity & Diversity Contact Us DEPARTMENTS Computer Science Informatics Statistics RESEARCH Research Areas Research Centers Research Highlights STUDENTS Graduate ▸ Prospective Students How to Apply Programs of Study Academic Year Plan Forms Policies Funding & Housing Computing Support Campus Resources Visit the Bren School Graduate Student Handbook Contact Undergraduate ▸ Contact Academic Advising Course Updates Academic Year Plan Petitions ICS Majors ICS Minors Policies: Academic Integrity Policies: Academic Standing Policies: Add, drop, & change options Policies: Coursework outside UCI Policies: Grade policy Policies: Laptop & computer use Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses Graduation ICS Student Life Upcoming Events Computing Support Scholarships & Fellowships Student Jobs & Internships PEOPLE Faculty Staff Graduate Students NEWS & EVENTS Newsroom Events Press Releases Annual Reports Student Blogs GET INVOLVED Make a Gift Alumni Leadership Council Corporate Partners Sponsor Projects Product Development Competition Bren school home / Community / News / Spotlights Cultivating collaboration Kay Family Foundation funds new mobile technology lab What served last fall as a launch pad for the nation’s first-ever Med AppJam is now a schoolwide resource for Bren School of ICS majors. Kay Family Foundation Innovation Lab — featuring Apple TVs, a PolyVision smartboard, and MacBook Airs and iPads available for checkout by students — is the first of its kind on the UC Irvine campus and was specifically designed to encourage teamwork. “Computing at UC Irvine is highly collaborative,” said Dean Hal Stern at the lab’s grand opening in February. “I’m very excited about this space because it provides an environment where students can learn and reinforce that mindset. I want to thank Kay Family Foundation for making this lab possible.” Students, faculty, staff, alumni and supporters attended the event, which included remarks by Stern and members of the ICS Student Council. “We used this space in fall 2012 to launch Med AppJam, a collaboration between ICS and the medical school,” said computer science major Nithin Jilla. “Nearly 20 teams used it to develop iOS applications, and the tournament was really successful. In the future this space will be used for more competitions and projects. We hope that professors will incorporate it into mobile-based classes as well.” PHOTO GALLERY ICS Student Council vice president Audrey Auyang offered welcome remarks at the Kay Family Foundation Innovation Lab grand opening event. Dean Hal Stern thanked Kay Family Foundation representatives for their support of the Bren School and its students. Students congregated at one of five collaboration stations to try out the lab equipment. Bren School students may check out iPads and MacBook Airs available through the lab. The grand opening event drew a crowd of students, faculty, staff and friends. More community Alumni Parents Leadership Council News Give a gift Quick Links - select a page - Computing support CS Seminar Series Employment Facilities Find faculty and staff Giving to the Bren School Graduate degrees Kay Family Foundation Lab Project ICS Prospective undergraduates Safety procedures Undergraduate degrees Copyright Inquiries | UCI Directory | Intranet