9985
www.ics.uci.edu/community/news/spotlight/spotlight_shah.php
shawn shah spotlight @ the bren school of information and computer sciences ABOUT About the School Dean's Welcome Facts and Figures Donald Bren Hall Visit the Bren School Equity & Diversity Contact Us DEPARTMENTS Computer Science Informatics Statistics RESEARCH Research Areas Research Centers Research Highlights STUDENTS Graduate ▸ Prospective Students How to Apply Programs of Study Academic Year Plan Forms Policies Funding & Housing Computing Support Campus Resources Visit the Bren School Graduate Student Handbook Contact Undergraduate ▸ Contact Academic Advising Course Updates Academic Year Plan Petitions ICS Majors ICS Minors Policies: Academic Integrity Policies: Academic Standing Policies: Add, drop, & change options Policies: Coursework outside UCI Policies: Grade policy Policies: Laptop & computer use Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses Graduation ICS Student Life Upcoming Events Computing Support Scholarships & Fellowships Student Jobs & Internships PEOPLE Faculty Staff Graduate Students NEWS & EVENTS Newsroom Events Press Releases Annual Reports Student Blogs GET INVOLVED Make a Gift Alumni Leadership Council Corporate Partners Sponsor Projects Product Development Competition Bren school home / Community / News / Spotlights Shawn Shah spotlight Yahoo! Technical Yahoo probably wasn't a title that Shawn Shah '05 imagined having as an undergraduate major in information and computer science. As a software engineer for Yahoo! Shopping’s database team in Sunnyvale, CA, Shawn is responsible for co-managing internal web tools and the product matching system. Inspired by his experience in ICS, Shawn hopes to one day launch a business that will deliver a revolutionary service to the world. Check out our spotlight page to read more profiles of Bren School students, faculty and alumni. “In recent years ideas like blogging, syndication, and tagging have improved the way millions of people create and consume information every day. I am amazed at how even a small group of innovators can make a huge impact in such a short time,” explains Shawn, who was an Extreme Computing competition winner in 2004 and 2005. Shawn keeps in touch with classmates and faculty mentors through e-mail and instant messaging. He also attends UCIAA and UCI sponsored events in the Bay Area often. In his free time he enjoys reading, watching his favorite television shows, and working on personal projects. As for advice to future ICS students? Shawn says, “Go beyond what the average student is doing and explore the resources available to students. If you think big and take advantage of those opportunities, you will have a wonderful college experience.” More community Alumni Parents Leadership Council News Give a gift Quick Links - select a page - Computing support CS Seminar Series Employment Facilities Find faculty and staff Giving to the Bren School Graduate degrees Kay Family Foundation Lab Project ICS Prospective undergraduates Safety procedures Undergraduate degrees Copyright Inquiries | UCI Directory | Intranet