9989
www.ics.uci.edu/community/news/spotlight/spotlight_uci_constructors_acm.php
Finals bound @ the bren school of information and computer sciences ABOUT About the School Dean's Welcome Facts and Figures Donald Bren Hall Visit the Bren School Equity & Diversity Contact Us DEPARTMENTS Computer Science Informatics Statistics RESEARCH Research Areas Research Centers Research Highlights STUDENTS Graduate ▸ Prospective Students How to Apply Programs of Study Academic Year Plan Forms Policies Funding & Housing Computing Support Campus Resources Visit the Bren School Graduate Student Handbook Contact Undergraduate ▸ Contact Academic Advising Course Updates Academic Year Plan Petitions ICS Majors ICS Minors Policies: Academic Integrity Policies: Academic Standing Policies: Add, drop, & change options Policies: Coursework outside UCI Policies: Grade policy Policies: Laptop & computer use Policies: Withdrawal/Readmission Policies: CS 199 / IN4MATX 199 Courses Graduation ICS Student Life Upcoming Events Computing Support Scholarships & Fellowships Student Jobs & Internships PEOPLE Faculty Staff Graduate Students NEWS & EVENTS Newsroom Events Press Releases Annual Reports Student Blogs GET INVOLVED Make a Gift Alumni Leadership Council Corporate Partners Sponsor Projects Product Development Competition Bren school home / Community / News / Spotlights Finals bound UCI team takes second place in regional ACM competition, invited to finals in Russia next June From front to back: Nick Alajat, Alan Castro and Michael Cappe Three undergraduate students from the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences have earned a spot in the finals of the Association for Computing Machinery’s International Collegiate Programming Contest. The UCI Constructors team, consisting of students Michael Cappe, Nick Ajalat and Alan Castro, and sponsored by computer science senior lecturer Richard Pattis, took second place in the ICPC’s Southern California Regional on Nov. 9. They competed in a field of 91 teams from 31 colleges and universities from Southern California and Las Vegas to earn the honor. They are among only 120 teams invited to compete at the ICPC World Finals, which will be held in Ekaterinburg, Russia, in June 2014. “For the first time in my memory, UCI's teams started seriously studying and practicing for this contest, so I expected our standings to improve, but I was bowled over by a second-place finish,” Pattis said. “These students did an extraordinary job.” Now in its 38th year, the ICPC attracts computer science students from around the globe. This time, nearly 30,000 contestants from more than 2,300 universities in 91 countries competed in regional competitions at some 300 sites worldwide. According to the ICPC world finals fact sheet, "The contest fosters creativity, teamwork, and innovation in building new software programs, and enables students to test their ability to perform under pressure. Quite simply, it is the oldest, largest, and most prestigious programming contest in the world." — Story by Ted B. Kissell — Photo courtesy of ACM UC Irvine Chapter More community Alumni Parents Leadership Council News Give a gift Quick Links - select a page - Computing support CS Seminar Series Employment Facilities Find faculty and staff Giving to the Bren School Graduate degrees Kay Family Foundation Lab Project ICS Prospective undergraduates Safety procedures Undergraduate degrees Copyright Inquiries | UCI Directory | Intranet